GOOD EVENING EVERYONE AND
WELCOME TO THE JULY SEVEN
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE
TO FLAG GUARD FROM WHAT OUR
CLARK PLEASE CALL THE ROLE
OF COUNSEL MEREDITH
YES.
>> HERE COME OUR AMERICAN HERE
.
THAT'S WHERE WATSON HERE COMES
FROM OUT HERE A DENHA HERE.
FERDOWSI OVER HERE, MOCKTAIL
HERE HERE ELSEWHERE AROUND HERE
,KUPFERBERG HERE ELSEWHERE
HERE WE HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
PROVE THE AGENDA MOVED BY
COUNCILOR AYERS SAYING BY
COUNCIL MEMBER KERNELL
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA ON
FAVOR OR OPPOSE THE AGENDA IS
PROVES TO BE OF COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR NOEMIA, IN THE
ABSENCE OF INTRODUCTIONS WE
MOVE DIRECTLY INTO PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVED TIME PUBLIC
COMMENT.
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO
SPEAKER PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE
TIME ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED
UP IN ADVANCE BY CONTACTING
YOUR CITY CLERK.
SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN
30 SECONDS ARE REMAINING AND
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN
YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS KEN
GARBA
.
>> THANKS VERY MUCH MAYOR
TAYLOR KENT GARBER.
SECOND WORD IT'S NICE TO BE
WITH YOU TONIGHT.
I APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
SPEAK.
I WANT TO COME HERE TONIGHT TO
CALL YOUR ATTENTION TO AGENDA
ITEM CANINE RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE BYLAWS OF THE
SUSTAINABILITY COMMISSION.
THE NEW SUSTAINABILITY
COMMISSION REPLACES
ENVIRONMENTAL AND ENERGY
COMMISSIONS.
BOTH THOSE DISCONTINUED
COMMISSIONS SET ASIDE TIME FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT AT TWO POINTS IN
THEIR MEETINGS BEFORE AND AFTER
REGULAR BUSINESS.
IF YOU REFER TO SECTION EIGHT
POINT TWO OF THE NEW
SUSTAINABLE COMMISSION
GUIDELINES IN YOUR PACKAGE
TONIGHT YOU'LL SEE THAT
SPECIFIES ONLY A SINGLE PUBLIC
COMMENT PERIOD.
THE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION
HAS AND BOTH THOSE COMMISSIONS
ACTUALLY HAVE HAD TO PERMIT
PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD IN THEIR
BYLAWS FOR AT LEAST FIFTEEN
YEARS ACCORDING TO LEGISLATOR
AND I THINK THE COMMISSIONERS
HAVE GENERALLY FOUND THE THE
EXTRA PUBLIC COMMENT I WOULDN'T
CALL IT EXTRA THAT STANDARD
PUBLIC COMMENT HELPFUL.
I'M NOT AWARE THAT THE DUAL
SLOTS HAVE EVER BEEN A PROBLEM.
I PERSONALLY MANY TIMES
APPRECIATED THE OPPORTUNITY TO
THANK ENERGY COMMISSIONERS TO
RESPECTFULLY OFFER SUGGESTIONS
AND IDEAS FOR THE FUTURE AND
OTHERS HAVE TO WAIT.
APPLEYARD HAS ANOTHER FREQUENT
SPEAKER AT THE END OF ENERGY
COMMISSION MEETINGS.
I THINK THE MEMBERS BRIGGS AND
DENHA CAN CAN ATTEST TO ALL
THIS.
I THINK IT'S BEEN A GOOD DIALOG
.
SO YOU KNOW, I HAVEN'T COMPARED
THE ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION BYLAW SIDE BY SIDE
WITH THE NEW SUSTAINABILITY
COMMISSION BYLAWS BUT THEY SEEM
TO TRACK VERY CLOSELY THIS
SEEMS TO BE THE ONE SIGNIFICANT
CHANGE.
SO I DON'T KNOW WHY THIS WAS
DONE BUT YOU CAN EASILY CORRECT
THIS BY PULLING NINE FROM THE
CONSENT AGENDA AND AMENDING
SECTION EIGHT POINT TWO OF THE
BYLAWS TO INTRODUCE A SECOND
PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD AFTER
REGULAR BUSINESS.
I EMAILED MY COUNCIL MEMBERS
ABOUT THIS THIS WEEK SO I THANK
YOU FOR CONSIDERING US TONIGHT.
AND FINALLY I WANT TO THANK ALL
OF YOU FOR YOUR PUBLIC SERVICE,
FOR YOUR HARD WORK ON COUNCIL.
I KNOW WE DON'T ALWAYS AGREE
BUT I REALLY RESPECT THE JOB
THAT YOU DO AND THE ENORMOUS
AMOUNT OF TIME YOU'VE COMMITTED
TO IT.
SO THANK YOU AGAIN AND I HOPE
YOU HAVE A GOOD MEETING.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CATHY
GRISWOLD.
GOOD EVENING.
I WANT TO THANK KEN GARBER FOR
HIS STATEMENTS.
I AGREE WITH EVERYTHING I'M
HERE TONIGHT TO TALK ABOUT SEEI
THREE TO HIRE YET ANOTHER
CONSULTANT.
IT'S REALLY EASY TO HIRE
CONSULTANTS.
I WAS IN THE BUSINESS WORLD AND
IT WAS EASY TO HIRE CONSULTANTS
AND IT WAS EASY TO GET THE
ANSWER THAT YOU WANTED FROM
YOUR CONSULTANT.
BUT WHAT WE HAVE IS A CRITICAL
CRITICAL CRISIS TONIGHT AND
WE'VE HAD IT FOR SOME TIME.
WE ARE NOT SPENDING MONEY ON
PEDESTRIAN AND CYCLING
INFRASTRUCTURE IN A MEANINGFUL
WAY AND WE'RE NOT SPENDING IT
BECAUSE WE'RE NOT EVEN
MEASURING IT.
THERE'S A PHRASE IN EDUCATION
WHAT GETS MEASURED GETS
ACCOMPLISHED.
WE DON'T MEASURE OUR CRIME
DOWNTOWN BECAUSE IT DOESN'T
EXIST TO THE PEOPLE IN THIS
ROOM.
THE POLICYMAKERS WE DON'T
MEASURE THE LACK OF STREET
LIGHTING.
MEANTIME, BETWEEN FAILURE, THE
ONLY REPORT THAT I SEE IS THE
NUMBER OF STREETLIGHTS THAT DTI
HAS REPAIRED YEAR TO DATE.
MAYBE YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND AND
REALIZE ONLY OWNS TWO THIRDS
OF THE STREETLIGHTS IN THE
CITY.
THE CITY OWNS THE OTHER ONE
THIRD BUT I GUESS WE DON'T NEED
TO KNOW HOW THEY'RE FUNCTIONING
.
WE ARE FACING A VERY, VERY
DIFFICULT TIME.
ANYONE WHO HASN'T READ THE NEW
YORK TIMES IN THE LAST COUPLE
OF WEEKS PROBABLY NEEDS TO
WE'VE HAD PRETTY EASY ANY EVER
WE COULD SPEND MONEY ON
WHATEVER WE WANTED AND DO
WHATEVER WE WANTED AND NOT GET
ALONG WITH EACH OTHER AND TREAT
EACH OTHER IN ANY WAY THAT WE
CHOSE TO JUST LIKE MIDDLE
SCHOOL.
WE DON'T HAVE THE LUXURY
OF DOING IT ANYMORE.
THESE ARE VERY, VERY DIFFICULT
TIMES.
I HAD SOMEONE DOING YARD WORK
FOR ME TODAY AND HE SAID AND HE
DOESN'T HAVE A CRIMINAL RECORD
AT ALL BUT HE SAID DOES TRUMP
REALLY WHAT HE IS DOING?
THE CRIME RATE IS GOING TO GO
UP NOW IF THAT'S OBVIOUS TO
SOMEONE DOING YARD WORK WHO I
DON'T THINK GRADUATED FROM HIGH
SCHOOL, IT DEFINITELY SHOULD BE
OBVIOUS TO US.
AND WHAT ARE WE DOING TO
PREPARE OUR DOWNTOWN
ENVIRONMENT FOR THE INCREASING
CRIME RATE IF WE'RE SIMPLY
IGNORING THE PROBLEM THAT WE
HAVE RIGHT NOW?
LASTLY, I'D LIKE TO READ A
QUOTE FROM KEN BURNS THE BEST
ARGUMENT IN THE WORLD WON'T
CHANGE A SINGLE PERSON'S POINT
OF VIEW, HE SAID THE ONLY THING
THAT CAN DO THAT IS A GOOD
STORY.
GOOD STORIES ARE A KIND
OF BENEVOLENT TROJAN HORSE.
YOU LET THEM IN AND THEY ADD
COMPLICATION ALLOWING TO
UNDERSTAND SOMETIMES A THING
AND ITS OPPOSITE ARE TRUE AT
THE SAME TIME.
THIS IS IN THE NEW YORK TIMES.
I HOPE YOU'LL TAKE A LOOK AT IT
AND THINK ABOUT IT BECAUSE TOO
OFTEN WE'VE BEEN DIVISIVE.
WE'VE BEEN BINARY IN OUR
THINKING IN IT'S TIME THAT WE
WORK TOGETHER.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
STOLLBERG
IS JOINING US FROM
COLOR WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN FIVE FREE FOR GO
AHEAD.
GOOD EVENING.
THIS IS TOM COLBERT CALLING
FROM BOBTOWN IN ANN ARBOR.
I'M CALLING YOU TO ASK YOU TO
VOTE NO ON DEATHY ONE.
FIRST I'D LIKE TO READ THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION'S LAND
HERITAGE STATEMENT.
I ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE LAND THE
CITY BEING REOCCUPIED IS THE
ANCESTRAL TRADITIONAL AND
CONTEMPORARY LANDS OF THE
ANISHINAABE INCLUDING A DOLLAR
A GIVEAWAY AND BOTTLE OF WINE
AND THAT PEOPLE I FURTHER
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT OUR CITY
STANDS LIKE ALMOST ALL PROPERTY
IN THE UNITED STATES ON LAND
BETWEEN GENERALLY AND
UNCONSCIONABLE WAYS FROM
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES.
THE TAKING OF THIS LAND WAS
FORMALIZED BY THE TREATY
OF DETROIT IN 1897 KNOWING
WHERE WE LIVE, WORK, STUDY AND
RECREATE DOES NOT CHANGE THE
PAST BUT A THOROUGH
UNDERSTANDING OF THE ONGOING
CONSEQUENCES OF THIS PATH CAN
EMPOWER US AND OUR WORK TO
CREATE A FUTURE THAT SUPPORTS
HUMAN FLOURISHING AND JUSTICE
FOR ALL INDIVIDUALS.
THE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION IS
NO MORE.
ALSO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
ACKNOWLEDGES THE HISTORICAL
SYSTEMIC RACISM IN LAND USE AND
LENDING POLICIES THAT
DISCRIMINATION DENIED CERTAIN
GROUPS OF PEOPLE THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR
INTERGENERATIONAL EQUITY
BUILDING OF OUR LAND.
A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN DOESN'T
OFFER ANYTHING TO RECTIFY THAT
LAST OPPORTUNITY THAT LONG
INTERGENERATIONAL EQUITY
BUILDING.
SO I ASK YOU TO CONTEMPLATE OUR
CITIES PROGRESSIVE STATEMENT IN
THE CONTEXT OF OUR ACTUAL
POLICY AND ACTIONS TONIGHT
YOU'RE BEING ASKED TO BAIL OUT
A LARGE LOCAL PROPERTY OWNER
AND LARGE RESIDENTIAL AND
COMMERCIAL LANDLORD BECAUSE HE
CAN'T MAKE HIS PROJECT PENCIL
OUT FOR ENOUGH MONEY FOR
HIMSELF.
SEVERAL YEARS AGO WHEN OUR
MAYOR AND COUNCIL MAJORITY AT
THAT TIME IN APPROPRIATELY HELP
A DEVELOPER THE 93 UNITS
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING ON NINE
MILLION DOLLARS TO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND TO THAT
DEVELOPER COULD CANCEL OUT.
THAT DEVELOPER CAME TO MARKET
AT DOUBLE THE RENT THAT HE SAID
HE WOULD.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN HERE ON THIS ONE IF WE
REALLY WANT TO ACCOMPLISH
SUSTAINER AFFORDABILITY AND
EQUITY, OUR ACTION MUST MATCH
OUR WORDS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KITTY CON
.
THIS CAR WILL BE JOINING
GIANT
CAR AT THE POINT OF ENDING AND
THREE FOUR, FIVE.
GO AHEAD.
HELLO THIS IS KITTY CON FORD.
I'M CALLING AGAIN TO CALL THE
BLATANT HYPOCRISY AND PAGE A
PLAY ABOUT THE CITY HELPING ONE
OF THE MAYOR BIGGEST DONOR
MILLBURY PERKINS STRUCTURES FOR
HIS ARBER.
S PROJECT.
>> FIRST OF ALL, THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL HAVE ELIMINATED
PARKING MINIMUMS FOR NEW
DEVELOPMENT AND THE DTC ONE
ZONING DISTRICT FOR DEVELOPING
AND TRANSIT LINE SO THAT CARS
AND PARKING WOULD BE
SIGNIFICANT NECESSARY.
>> SO I WAS SHOCKED WHEN I
HEARD THAT THE CITY WILL HELP
PAY FOR THREE PARKING
STRUCTURES FOR A SEE ONE
DEVELOPMENT BUT THEN I REALIZED
THE DEVELOPER IS JEFF HOFFMAN,
ONE OF THE MAYOR'S BUDDIES AND
ONE OF HIS BIGGEST DONOR.
IS THIS A COINCIDENCE WITH SAME
ASSISTANCE GIVEN TO ANYONE ELSE
ANYTHING LIKE THIS EVER BEEN
DONE BEFORE?
I THINK THE ANSWER TO ALL
OF THOSE QUESTIONS IS NO.
I'LL PROBABLY BE ACCUSED
OF BEING A CONSPIRACY THEORIST
BUT JUST LOOK AT THE FACT THIS
IS OUTRAGEOUS.
PLEASE VOTE NO ON DC ONE.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS HANNAH
STANTON
HIGH CITY COUNCIL.
MY NAME IS HANNAH STANTON
GOKUL.
I'M A GRADUATE STUDENT AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND I
LIVE IN AN AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CO-OP.
I AM ALSO A FULL TIME BUCKBY BY
BUS AND WORK COMPUTER AND I
RODE HERE TODAY WITH TWELVE
OTHER VERY BRAVE SOULS THROUGH
RUSH HOUR TRAFFIC WITH BUBBLE
MACHINES ATTACHED TO OUR BIKES
IN ORDER TO DRAW VISIBILITY AND
ATTENTION TO TRANSPORTATION
SAFETY ON OUR ROADS.
SO TODAY WE FLOODED E STADIUM
BOULEVARD TRAFFIC WITH BUBBLES
BEFORE TURNING ONTO MAIN STREET
AND ARRIVING HERE AT CITY HALL.
I CALL THIS PROTEST BIKE RIDE
BUBBLES FOR BIKE LANES.
YOU CAN THINK OF IT AS LIKE A
WHIMSICAL PROTEST BIKE RIDE.
IT'S REALLY FUN AFTER THE
MEETING PLEASE CHECK YOUR INBOX
FOR AN EMAIL OF A VIDEO
COMPILATION.
ALL THE CLOSE PASSES I HAVE
EXPERIENCED JUST ON STADIUM
BOULEVARD WHILE DOING THESE
PROTEST BIKE RIDES I FILM EVERY
RIDE.
THE POINT OF THIS PROTEST BIKE
RIDE TODAY IS TO COME HERE AND
TO ASK YOU TO PLEASE ALLOCATE
FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS
YOU HAVE SET ASIDE IN THE
BUDGET TO DO AN IMMEDIATE
PROTECTED BIKE LANE QUICK BUILD
ON STADIUM NEW STADIUM EXCUSE
ME AND TO DIET THAT ROAD SO
THAT IT CAN BE MADE SAFER FOR
ALL PEOPLE WHO ARE TRANSPORTING
THEMSELVES TO THAT ROAD.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEX LO
.
GOOD EVENING.
THIS IS NOBODY WHICH IS WHAT I
WAS LABELED A LAST WEEK'S
PLANNING COMMISSION DUE TO THE
FACT THAT I WOULD IN FACT LIKE
TO LIVE IN A SKYSCRAPER
TONIGHT.
I'D LIKE TO TALK TO YOU ABOUT
BOTH THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
SAFETY STANDARD HAS ALREADY
SPOKEN BRILLIANTLY ON SAFETY.
SO I FEEL ONLY THE NEED TO ECHO
AND AMPLIFY WHAT SHE SAID.
SAFETY CANNOT WAIT ON THE TOPIC
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, I'D
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE LATEST
VOLLEY OF MISINFORMATION ABOUT
IT AND HOPE SOME COUNCIL
MEMBERS WILL SPEAK UP ABOUT IT
TO THE LATEST ROUND OF ABJECT
TRIPE IS ABOUT HOW THE CITY IS
SUPPOSEDLY GEARING UP TO SELL
PARKLAND DUE TO THE FACT THAT A
MAP SHOWING ACCESS TO COMMUNITY
PARKS EXCLUDES BOTH CEMETERIES
AND GOLF COURSES, IT'S
PERFECTLY REASONABLE TO EXCLUDE
GOLF COURSES AND CEMETERIES
FROM THIS LIST GIVEN THAT THEY
ARE NOT PLACES APPROPRIATE FOR
GENERAL RECREATION.
IF ANY FELLOW GOLFERS IN THE
AUDIENCE DISAGREE WITH ME ON
THAT, I WOULD ENCOURAGE THEM TO
CONSIDER THEIR IMPOTENT RAGE
THAT THEY WOULD FEEL IF IF THEY
SAW SOMEONE WALKING THEIR DOG
ON THE FAIRWAY.
LEAVING ASIDE THE MASSIVE
ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE FROM OUR
GOLF COURSES, EVEN OUR
SUPPOSEDLY ENVIRONMENTALLY
FRIENDLY ONES, THEIR LIMITED
UTILITY MAKES THEM AS
INAPPROPRIATE FOR THE LABEL
COMMUNITY PARK AS THIS VERY
BUILDING.
MORE INTERESTING TO ME THOUGH
IS THE FACT THAT THE VERY
GROUP'S WEBSITE CORRECTLY DOES
LABEL THE LIBRARY LOT AS NOT
BEING A PARK AND NEVER HAVING
BEEN ADDED INCLUDES LIBERTY
PLAZA.
I'M GLAD TO SEE THAT EVEN THEY
ARE NOT DELUDED ENOUGH TO CALL
THIS DESOLATE PARKING A PARK
AFTER ALL.
SO THERE'S A PARK
THE QUICK
FINAL LOAD ON DC ONE WE REALLY
DON'T NEED MORE PARKING IF YOU
ABSOLUTELY MUST DO SOMETHING
LIKE THIS PLEASE TIE ANY BOND'S
FOR PARKING TO A PROPER
COMMITMENT FOR CREATING A REAL
PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY STREETSCAPE
WHICH THE CURRENT PLAN DOES NOT
APPEAR TO INCLUDE AT ALL.
WHILE I ENCOURAGE YOU TO
RESPOND APPROPRIATELY TO
MISINFORMATION AND CONSPIRACY
THEORIES, I DO I DO URGE YOU TO
LISTEN TO PEOPLE WHO ARE
OPPOSED TO THIS FOR SERIOUS
REASONS RATHER THAN CONSPIRACY
THEORIES.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SHANNON
LIOW.
HELLO EVERYONE.
SHANNON NONE OF YOU I LIVE NONE
OF YOUR WORDS.
I LIVE IN PITTSFIELD TOWNSHIP
SO I GUESS POLITICALLY YOU HAVE
NO REASON TO LISTEN TO ME.
BUT I HOPE BY THE END OF THIS
THAT MAYBE YOU FEEL THAT MY
BASE MATTERS IN THE
CONVERSATION OF HOW WE DOESN'T
HIT OUR LAND AND IT SO TO GET
FROM MY HOME AND INTO THE CITY
TO BE HERE TODAY BEFORE YOU IT
TOOK 40 MINUTES TO MAKE YOUR
AND ON DAYS WHEN MY BODY IS NOT
ABLE THE WEATHER IS NOT
PERMITTING OR I JUST CANNOT
MUSTER UP THE COURAGE TO BUY A
CAR HEAVY PACARD IT'S A FORTY
FIVE MINUTE BUS COMMUTE AND I
DO THIS COMMUTE ALMOST DAILY.
I LIVE FAR FROM TOWN OUTSIDE
OF CITY LIMITS AND IN A SINGLE
FAMILY HOME AND IT'S NOT
BECAUSE I NEED OR WANT THE
SPACE OR THE BACKYARD OR EVEN
WANT ISOLATION BUT IT'S BECAUSE
OF THE DEEP SCARCITY OF HOMES
IN THIS CITY BESIDES THE BIG
MANSIONS AND LUXURY APARTMENTS
THAT ARE UNAFFORDABLE AND I
KNOW THIS GAP IS NOT BY
COINCIDENCE BUT BY DESIGN WHEN
I SEE BEAUTIFUL HOMES LIKE
THOSE IN KOREATOWN THAT CAN
ACCOMMODATE MULTIPLE UNITS
INSIDE THEM.
AND IT'S VITAL TO ME THAT THESE
DWELLINGS WHILE THEY LOOK SO
SIMILAR TO MANY OF THE SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES IN ANN ARBOR ARE
LEGAL TO BUILD IN THOSE VERY
SAME NEIGHBORHOODS JUST BECAUSE
ITS ABILITY TO SUPPORT MULTIPLE
FAMILIES.
I CARE ABOUT BUILDING MORE
HOUSING BECAUSE ALL OF US
DESERVE TO WALK TO OUR FAVORITE
GROCERY STORES, LIBRARIES,
PARKS AND COFFEE SHOPS TO FEEL
SAFER IN THE STREET SCAPE AND
BE SURROUNDED BY NEIGHBORS WHO
PUSH US TO BE OUR BEST SELVES
THROUGH PROXIMITY CONVERSATION
GATHERING WE NEED TO BUILD
HOUSING AND DESIGN OUR CITY TO
SUPPORT THIS.
BUT PERHAPS I'M JUST AN
IDEALIST AND THESE AREN'T
THINGS I SHOULD BE SPENDING MY
TIME FIGHTING FOR THEN SURELY
AT THE VERY LEAST I MEAN WE ALL
DO OUR PART IN FIGHTING THIS
CLIMATE CRISIS MAY WELL BE
STEWARDS OF THIS LAND WELCOME
OUR NEIGHBORS IN AND SUPPORT
THEM WITH A HOUSING ABUNDANCE.
MAY WE REMEMBER THAT THEY WERE
PEOPLE BEFORE US WHO LIVED HERE
WHO ARE PUSHED OUT AND TO WHOM
WE HAVE THE OBLIGATION
OF FIXING THOSE WRONGS.
I BELIEVE A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
THIS PLAN IS A BLUEPRINT FOR
HOW WE SHOULD BUILD OUR CITY
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
I'M URGING YOU TO BACK THIS
PLAN AND FIGHT FOR MORE HOUSING
WALKABILITY AND A DIGNIFIED
LIFE FOR ALL WHO WANT TO LIVE
HERE.
THIS PLAN IS HOW WE LIVE OUR
VALUES OF SUSTAINABILITY,
AFFORDABILITY AND INCLUSION AND
HOW WE SHOP AS GOOD NEIGHBORS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PATRICIA
OSTIN.
>> GOOD EVENING, MR. TAYLOR.
CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS I'M
CURRENTLY SERVING AS PRESIDENT
OF THE ANN ARBOR HISTORICAL
FOUNDATION AND I'M HERE WITH
SOME REALLY EXCITING NEWS .
IT'S SORT OF FINISHED TO THE
BICENTENNIAL BUT WE UNDERTOOK A
PROJECT AND WE WANT TO SHARE
WHAT WE HAVE ACCOMPLISHED SO
THAT WE WILL ALL KNOW ABOUT THE
HISTORY IN CASE YOU'RE EVER ON
JEOPARDY AND QUESTIONED IN MAY
OF EIGHTEEN TWENTY FOUR JOHN
ALLEN AND ELIZA WARSHAK WALKER
RAMSEY REGISTER THE NAME ANN
ARBOR AT THE LAND OFFICE IN
DETROIT IN AN 1850 STORY IN HIS
LADY BOOK MAGAZINE, A
WELL-KNOWN MAGAZINE OF THAT ERA
,AN ARTICLE FEATURED A
ROMANTICIZED VERSION OF THE
NAMING OF THE CITY.
>> IT SHOWED TWO WOMEN SITTING
IN A GRAY BARBER VISITING
SUPPOSEDLY AN ALLEN AND MARY
ANN RAMSEY AT THE CITY'S
CENTENNIAL IN 1920 FOR A GROUP
OF CITIZENS PRESENTED THE CITY
A BRONZE PLAQUE WITH THE TWO
AND SITTING IN ARBOR BASED ON
THAT MAGAZINE ARTICLE THE
APOCRYPHA LEGEND BEGAN FOR
REASONS UNKNOWN TO ME THE LATE
PROFESSOR RUSSELL BIDLACK
OF THE UNIVERSITY DEPARTMENT
OF LIBRARY
SCIENCE BEGAN TO
RESEARCH THE NAMING OF ANN
ARBOR IN 1960 TO INCLUDING
VISITING WITH ANN ALLEN'S
DESCENDANTS IN STANTON,
VIRGINIA WHERE MANY OF YOU
PERHAPS KNOW WHEN JOHN ELENOR
HUSBAND HEADED FOR CALIFORNIA,
HER FAMILY CAME AND TOOK HER
BACK TO VIRGINIA.
HE FOUND THAT THE WIVES OF MR.
ALLEN AND MR. RUMSEY HAD YET TO
ARRIVE WHEN THE CITY WAS NAMED
AND CERTAINLY WERE NOT SITTING
IN A BAR ARBOR.
WE ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE ANN WAS
FOR THE WIVES AND THE ARBOR
SPILLED HRB.
ALL YOU ARE WAS LATER CHANGED
TO ANN ARBOR, OUR BLR AND THE
ARMORY TO A GROUP OF OAK TREES
WHICH FORMED THE NATURAL
CORRIDOR'S WHEN IT WAS
ANNOUNCED THAT THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR WOULD BE CELEBRATING ITS
BICENTENNIAL IN TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR.
PATRICIA OSTENDE, GRACE
SCHEKMAN AND SUSAN WEINBERG
DECIDED TO UNDERTAKE A PROJECT
TO CORRECT THE MISINFORMATION
OF HOW OUR BELOVED CITY WAS
NAMED.
WE CONTACTED JEFFREY CROCKET
WHO CHAIRED THE BICENTENNIAL
HISTORY SUBCOMMITTEE AND WE
WORKED WITH THAT COMMITTEE
UNDER HIS LEADERSHIP.
OUR THANKS ALSO TO CHRISTINE
CROCKET AT THAT TIME PRESIDENT
OF THE FOUNDATION AND ITS BOARD
WHO DONATED THREE THOUSAND
DOLLARS A PLEA FOR THE PAY FOR
THIS NEW PLAQUE.
SO THANK YOU, JEFF AND
CHRISTINE.
>> A NEW BRONZE PLAQUE WAS
DESIGNED AND PLACED ON THE
LARGE STONE WITH THE NINETEEN
TWENTY FOUR PLAQUE.
IT IS LOCATED NEXT TO THE LIVE
BUILDING ON THE CORNER OF HERE
AND FIRST STREETS FACING HURON
AND DOES TELL THE STORY OF HOW
ANN ARBOR WAS NAMED.
>> SO MY FRIENDS, WE HOPE IT
WILL SET THE RECORD STRAIGHT
AND NOW YOU KNOW THE REST
OF THE STORY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PETER XTINA
.
>> HELLO.
I AM NOT HERE OPPOSING JEFFREY
HALDEMAN'S S PROJECT.
YES, IT WOULD BE A HIGHLY CAR
CENTRIC SPACE THAT WOULD
CYNICALLY EXPLOIT THE ZONING
ADVANTAGES HE GAINED BY
PERSUADING YOU TO PASS ONE.
BUT IF HE WERE WILLING TO RISK
HIS OWN MONEY AND CREDIT FOR
THE WHOLE PROJECT, I WOULD NOT
PROTEST.
WHAT I AM PROPOSING IS ITS
POTENTIALLY MASSIVE TAXPAYER
SUBSIDY WITHIN FIRST THE
LIABILITY TO THE CITY FINANCING
JEFFERYS THROUGH PARKING DECKS
WOULD BE ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY
SIX MILLION DOLLARS.
>> THAT'S ONE SEVENTH OF A
BILLION DOLLARS.
>> YOUR OWN CONSULTANT WARNS
THAT IF THE REVENUE IS NOT
SUFFICIENT TO COVER THE DEBT
SERVICE, THE CITY'S GENERAL
FUND REPRESENTS A SOURCE
OF PAYMENT FOR THE SHORTFALL.
THAT'S US THE TAXPAYERS PARKING
DECKS COULD LOSE MONEY IF
RESIDENTS OWN FEWER CARS
BECAUSE THEY WALK BIKE, CARPOOL
TAKEOVERS OR EVEN RIDE THE BUS
.
THE DECKS COULD ALSO FALL SHORT
IF A HOUSING OCCUPANTS IF
HOUSING OCCUPANCY IN THE
PROJECT FALLS SHORT, A PROJECT
BORDERED BY TWO BUSY ROADS MAY
BE UNATTRACTED TO FAMILIES WITH
CHILDREN.
THE DEMAND FOR HOUSING IS NOT
INFINITE AND NEW PROJECTS ARE
GOING UP EVERY MONTH.
ALSO, TRUMP MAY THE LOCAL
ECONOMY SO THERE IS LOTS
OF RISK AND A RISK WILL FALL ON
US.
>> SOME OF YOU ARGUE THAT A
GREAT VALUE OF ALL OF OUR NEW
HOUSING IS WHAT IT ADDS TO THE
CITY'S COFFERS.
BUT AS FAR AS I CAN TELL THIS
PROJECT WILL NOT BE A NICKEL
OVER THE NEXT 30 YEARS TO CITY
GOVERNMENT, COUNTY GOVERNMENT
OR THE TRANSIT AUTHORITY.
I CANNOT THINK OF A LEGITIMATE
REASON WHY TAXPAYERS SHOULD
RISK A GOOD PART OF ONE HUNDRED
AND FORTY SIX MILLION DOLLARS
FOR A PROJECT THAT WILL YIELD
SO LITTLE TAX REVENUE FOR SO
LONG.
AND AN ARTICLE ABOUT THIS
PROJECT AND LEAVE NOTES THAT
THIS IS NOT MY WORDS THAT
JEFFREY HAS BEEN A MAJOR
CAMPAIGN DONOR TO THE MAYOR AND
SOME OF HIS COUNCIL ALLIES.
THIS MAY CAUSE SOME TO IMAGINE
THAT THERE'S AN ILLEGITIMATE
REASON FOR ADOPTING THIS.
>> TO PARAPHRASE THE OLD SONG
WHATEVER JEFFREY WANTS JEFFREY
GETS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MARCHAND'S
APPEARS TO BE TURNING UP
WITH
THE NEVER ENDING AN FOUR STAR
SIX YEAR OLD GOT
CAR NEVER
ENDING AN EIGHT ZERO FOUR GO
AHEAD
.
CALL HER PHONE NUMBER EIGHT
ZERO FOUR STAR SIX TO
ME THE
CALLER'S FOCUS APPEARS TO BE
UNMUTED BUT WE'RE NOT HEARING
ON
APPEAR.
THE CALLER IS NOT HUNG UP.
PERHAPS WHAT'S WRONG WITH OUR
NEXT OUR NEXT SPEAKER AND IF
THE PERSON CALLS BACK IN WE'LL
PICK THEM UP ON THE ON THE FLIP
SIDE THAT IS TO SAY AFTER MR.
HALEY OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MR.
HALEY.
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
>> AND TO THE YOUNG MAN THAT
SPOKE FROM PITTSFIELD TOWNSHIP
,YOU HAVE THE RIGHT TO SPEAK
AT ANY MEETING THAT YOU WANT.
SO THUMBS UP.
CHAIRMAN HALEY TOWNSHIP I
DIDN'T SAY PROPERTY TAXES.
ONE OF THE REASONS PEOPLE LOSE
THEIR HOMES IN THE FIRST FEW
YEARS IS PROPERTY TAXES.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU KNOW AND I
WAS MADE AWARE THAT WHEN I
BOUGHT MY HOUSE IN TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR THAT SOMETHING'S
GOING TO HAPPEN NEXT YEAR AND
LIKE THEY SAID, IT DID HAPPEN.
MY HOUSE PAYMENT WENT UP TWO
HUNDRED DOLLARS WHEN I GOT THE
NOTICE OF WHY WAS THAT
ADJUSTMENT THE PROPERTY TAXES
BETWEEN WHO OWNED THE HOUSE
BEFORE AND WHEN I BOUGHT IT SO
PAY AN EXTRA TWENTY FOUR
HUNDRED DOLLARS A YEAR FOR THAT
ONE.
WHEN DO YOU EVEN BUY HIS
PROPERTY AND THEY TAKE IT OFF
THE TEXTBOOK PROPERTY INCOME
PROPERTY GO JUST ASK AN NGO AND
THEY BUY PROPERTY SAME THING.
WHERE IS THAT INCOME FROM THAT
PROPERTY GO AFTER THEY TAKE
CONTROL OVER IT IT GOES
SOMEWHERE BUT WHAT I'M HERE TO
TALK TO AND MAKE YOU GUYS AWARE
OF WHAT'S GOING IN TEXAS RIGHT
NOW AND AND HAS TO DO WITH THE
16TH AMENDMENT AND TAXES AND
STUFF AND REASON WHY IT'S
IMPORTANT TO PROPERTY TAXES IS
AS YOU GUYS PROBABLY REALIZE,
UNREALIZED GAIN IS WHERE YOU
BUY A STOCK AT ONE PRICE IT
GOES UP THE VALUE OF THE PRICE
OF THAT STOCK IS NOW MORE AND
SO YOU CASH IT THAT GAIN IS NOT
REALIZED AND TO CASH IT UNTIL
THAT POINT IS UNREALIZED
THERE'S A TURNING AND REAL
ESTATE DEVELOPER IN TEXAS WHO
IS SUING THE COUNTY IN TEXAS
DENTON COUNTY OVER PROPERTY
TAXES AND THIS UNREALIZED GAIN
TAX HAD ALREADY MADE IT THROUGH
THE DISTRICT COURT.
THEY KICKED THE CAN TO THE
APPELLATE COURT AND NOW IT'S
GONE TO THE TEXAS SUPREME COURT
.
NEXT PLACE IT'S GOING TO GO IS
TO THE US SUPREME COURT WHERE
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO COME
UP WITH WHAT UNREALIZED GAIN IS
AND IF YOU GO TO A SITE AND
READ MOCKINGBIRD PROPERTIES DOT
COM LAST DECADE YOU'LL SEE ALL
THE INFORMATION HE HAS A 30
PAGE AMICUS BRIEF AND A FORTY
FIVE PAGE CRIMINAL COMPLAINT
AGAINST DENTON COUNTY, TEXAS.
IT TALKS ABOUT HOW THAT UNIFORM
PRAISE AND COMMISSION IS
QUANTIFYING APPRAISALS TO MEET
CERTAIN STANDARDS AND HOW THAT
AFFECTS WAS AFFECTING BONDS AND
ISSUING BONDS AND SCHOOLS IN
THAT DISTRICT, ALL THAT FUN
STUFF.
SO I'M YOU KNOW, OUT THERE IT'S
IN THE WORKS OF THE TEXAS STATE
SUPREME COURT.
THE NEXT PLACE IS GOING TO GO
AS TO THE US SUPREME COURT AND
WHERE WE GO AND PROPERTY TAXES.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM COUNCILMAN OH I'M
SORRY.
THANK YOU FOR ASKING AS A
PERSON TO COME BACK.
THANK YOU.
CUSTOMER OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
MARCHAND'S.
>> THANK YOU
CALLER THE PHONE
NUMBER AND AN EIGHT ZERO FOUR
STAR SIX TWO ON YOUR PHONE.
>> CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES WE CAN.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU BET.
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
ALL RIGHT.
FIRST-TIME CALLER, LONGTIME
LISTENER.
REALLY APPRECIATE ALL YOU GUYS
DO.
I MUST SAY I DON'T HAVE THE FOR
PATIENTS.
YOU DO EVERYTHING YOU DO.
MY MAIN REASON FOR CALLING
TODAY IS A MAGIC SITUATION
WE'RE IN TO SEE QUICK FIX.
I AM A FORMER EMPLOYEE OF THE
CITY
.
I WAS WORKING FOR PARKS AND
RECREATION DEPARTMENT.
I'M VERY FAMILIAR WITH HOW
THOSE COME THROUGH AND EVER
SINCE I LEFT THE CITY I'VE SEEN
REQUESTS FALL ON DEAF EARS.
WE OFTEN GET THE CANNED
RESPONSE OF THE CITY HAS
ADDRESSED ISSUES AS THOROUGHLY
AS POSSIBLE.
THERE'S NOTHING MORE THE CITY
CAN DO AT THE TIME IT IS
DISINGENUOUS AND INCREDIBLY
FRUSTRATING TO HAVE A CANNED
RESPONSE OF THE CITY EMPLOYEES
COULD DO IS GIVE US A THOROUGH
BREAKDOWN OF WHAT THEIR ACTIONS
ARE, WHAT ACTIONS WERE TAKEN.
>> I AM SPECIFICALLY CONCERNED
ABOUT THE SIDEWALKS ON GREEN
ROAD EAST OF NIXON.
THEY ARE VERY HEAVILY
TRAFFICKED ESPECIALLY NOW THE
NIXON ROAD IS CLOSED FOR THE
SUMMER AND THEY ARE NOT
MAINTAINED BY THE CITY.
THE OTHER PROPERTY OWNERS SEEM
TO MAINTAIN THEIR SIDEWALKS
SECTIONS JUST FINE FOR THE CITY
ALONG SUGARBUSH IN PARTICULAR I
BELIEVE THREE YEARS AGO I WAS
THE LAST PERSON TO TRIM THE
BUSHES BACK ALONG THE ROAD SO I
WOULD ASK WE TO HAVE SOMEONE
MAINTAIN A HEAVILY TRAFFICKED
SIDEWALKS THERE CURRENTLY IS
FOR THE PASS ANYONE ON THE
SIDEWALK AND THERE'S OFTEN
THREE OR FOUR PEOPLE WIDE ON
THE SIDEWALK IF WE'RE TAKING
PEDESTRIANS AND CYCLISTS SAFETY
SERIOUSLY, I ASK YOU TO DO THE
BARE MINIMUM OF MAINTAINING
PARK WALKING AND CYCLING AREAS
AND SPACES IT SUBMITTED THE
FIRST REQUEST THREE MONTHS AGO
I SUBMITTED TWO MORE REQUESTS
AND I HAD NO FEEDBACK FROM THE
CITY.
>> IT'S JUST IT'S FRANKLY
RIDICULOUS THAT THERE IS NO
RESPONSE AND SECRET FIX IS
INCREDIBLY POORLY RUN.
IT COMES OFF AS TERRIBLE
SERVICE.
I'LL JUST END WITH SAYING SHOUT
OUT TO JOE LANG AND MRS SALT
LAKE CITY EMPLOYEES AND THEY
ARE WONDERFUL AT WHAT THEY DO
AND THEY GIVE A TIME TO THE
CITY AND I APPRECIATE THEM
DEEPLY.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS FROM
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL?
THANK YOU AND THANKS FOR
EVERYONE WHO CAME OUT TONIGHT
FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
IT'S ALWAYS NICE TO SEE NEW
FACES AND FOLKS YOUNGER THAN ME
ENGAGING IN GOVERNMENT.
SO THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR BEING
HERE.
I WANTED TO ADDRESS A COMMENT
FROM EARLIER JUST TO ASSURE
RESIDENTS THAT WE DO TRACK
CRIME INCLUDING CRIME DOWNTOWN
.
IF YOU GO TO THE ANN ARBOR
WEBSITE, THE CITY WEBSITE, YOU
CLICK ON THE POLICE DEPARTMENT,
YOU CAN ACTUALLY DO A PUBLIC
CRIME SEARCH.
IT PULLS INCIDENT DATA EVERY
TWENTY FOUR HOURS FROM THE
POLICE RECORD SYSTEM AND IF YOU
REALLY WANT TO GET INTO IT YOU
CAN SUBSCRIBE TO CRIME ALERTS
AND RECEIVE UPDATES WHEN WHEN
NEW CRIMES OCCUR OCCUR NEAR A
SPECIFIC ADDRESS.
SO IF THAT IS OF INTEREST TO
YOU THAT DATA IS AVAILABLE ON
THE WEBSITE AND YOU CAN GET
DAILY UPDATES ON THAT.
THE OTHER THING I WANTED TO
QUICKLY ADDRESS IS WOULDN'T BE
A COUNCIL MEETING IF I WASN'T
TALKING ABOUT MAIN STREET.
THE ROLLING THE ROLLING
SCULPTURE CAR SHOW IS ON FRIDAY
FROM TWO TO 10 P.M. THIS IS AN
ANNUAL EVENT.
IT'S BEEN AROUND FOR A LONG
TIME.
IT'S FREE TO THE PUBLIC.
THERE ARE MORE THAN THREE
HUNDRED ANTIQUE CLASSIC AND
CONCEPT CARS THAT WILL BE
DISPLAYED DOWNTOWN AND IT'S A
GREAT WAY TO COME AND ENJOY
EVERYTHING THAT MAIN STREET AND
OUR HOSPITALITY AND RETAIL
BUSINESSES DOWN THERE HAVE TO
OFFER.
I'M SURE IT APPEALS TO SOMEONE
LIKE MY HUSBAND AND MAYBE NOT
ME BUT I PROMISE YOU EVEN IF
YOU'RE NOT A CAR PERSON YOU'RE
GOING TO HAVE A NICE TIME
FRIDAY NIGHT DOWNTOWN.
SO I HOPE THAT YOU WILL JOIN
COUNCIL BRITISH.
>> THANK YOU AND THANK YOU FOR
THAT WARM INVITATION TO THE
DOWNTOWN.
I WANTED TO ANNOUNCE ON BEHALF
OF COUNCIL MEMBER CYNTHIA
HARRISON AND MYSELF THAT WE ARE
HAVING A COFFEE HOUR ON
WEDNESDAY, JULY 3RD AT THE ANN
ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY IN THE
LOWER LEVEL PROGRAM ROOM FROM
SIX TO SEVEN THIRTY AND OUR
SPECIAL GUEST WILL BE POLICE
CHIEF ANDRE ANDERSON.
SO PLEASE COME TWENTY THREE
YEP.
JULY TWENTY THIRD WEDNESDAY.
AND I ALSO WANTED TO SAY THAT
I'VE BEEN CANVASING BOARD ONE
THESE PAST WEEKS.
I WANT TO THANK EVERYONE WHO
HAS TAKEN THE TIME TO TALK TO
ME CANVASING IS ALWAYS
INSPIRING AND I LEAVE FEELING
UPLIFTED EVERY TIME I SCORE AN
OPEN DOOR AND A CONVERSATION.
SO PLEASE KEEP OPENING YOUR
DOORS.
>> THANKS.
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON THANK
YOU MAYOR.
>> ON JULY 6TH TWENTY TWENTY
THREE IN OUR CITY COUNCIL
PASSED THE DRIVING QUALITY
ORDINANCE.
IT WAS NINE YEARS AGO ON THAT
VERY SAME DATE THAT ORLANDO
CASTILLO WAS KILLED BY POLICE
DURING A TRAFFIC STOP THAT
NEVER SHOULD HAVE OCCURRED.
HIS DEATH IS A REMINDER THAT
ROUTINE SHOULD NEVER BECOME
FATAL IN THE TWO YEARS SINCE
THE ORDINANCE PASSED WE'VE SEEN
WHAT'S POSSIBLE WHEN WE STOP
USING MINOR VIOLATIONS AS A
GATEWAY TO DISPROPORTIONATELY
TO DISPROPORTIONATELY STOPPING
BLACK DRIVERS AND START ASKING
HARDER QUESTIONS ABOUT WHAT
SAFETY REALLY MEANS.
I WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE CHIEF
ANDERSON FOR FOLLOWING UP TO
THE ORDINANCE BY ISSUING A
POLICY UPDATE THAT CLOSED A
LOOPHOLE AROUND STOP
DOCUMENTATION THAT MOVE HELP TO
REINFORCE WITH THE ORDINANCE
WITHOUT HARM REDUCTION,
TRANSPARENCY AND
ACCOUNTABILITY.
THIS HAS SHOWN US WHAT'S
POSSIBLE WHEN DEPARTMENTS
PARTICIPATE IN HARM REDUCTION
AS A PRACTICE IT'S SHOWN US
SOMETHING ELSE TO WHERE THE
CRACKS ARE BECAUSE PASSING THE
ORDINANCE ALSO REVEALED THE
LIMITS OF OUR EXISTING
DATABASES AND DATA COLLECTION
METHODS IT EXPOSED.
SOME OF OUR SYSTEMS WEREN'T
BUILT FOR THIS KIND OF EQUITY
WORK AND HOW MUCH MORE WE HAVE
TO DO TO MODERNIZE THE WAY WE
TRACK, ANALYZE AND RESPOND TO
TRAFFIC STOP DATA PROGRESS
ISN'T JUST ABOUT PASSING A LAW.
>> IT'S IT'S THE
IMPLEMENTATION, THE FOLLOW
THROUGH AND THE COURSE
CORRECTIONS AND WEAVES AND
WE'RE SEEING THAT IN REAL TIME
BUT WE'RE ALSO SEEING WHERE
WE'RE FALLING SHORT AND THAT'S
PART OF THE PROCESS TOO.
SO TODAY I WANT TO THANK FELLOW
COUNCIL MEMBERS, THE MAYOR, THE
NRA POLICE DEPARTMENT AND IPAC
AND THE COMMUNITY FOR
SUPPORTING THE IMPLEMENTATION
AND EVOLUTION OF THE DRIVING
EQUALITY ORDINANCE.
>> THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DENHA.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
FIRST I JUST WANT TO START BY
THANKING EVERYBODY WHO CAME
OUT, EVERYBODY IN THE COMMUNITY
WHO CAME OUT TO THE GCC'S
FOURTH OF JULY CELEBRATION.
IT IS A GREAT TIME BUT I
ESPECIALLY I JUST WANTED TO
THANK OUR FIRE DEPARTMENT FOR
ONCE AGAIN PUTTING ON THE SPRAY
PARK AFTER THE PARADE.
I KNOW IT'S GENERALLY A PRETTY
HOT DAY AND THAT'S A GREAT WAY
TO COOL DOWN.
I KNOW THE MAYOR RUNNING
THROUGH WITH SOME KIDS AND
ENJOYING IT SO IT'S I THINK
JUST A GREAT COMMUNITY
CELEBRATION.
I ALSO WANTED TO IN CONTINUING
OUR COUNCIL PARTNERSHIP WITH
THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY
AS A SUMMER GAME I WANTED TO
SHARE THIS WEEK'S SUMMER GAME
CODE WHICH IS A TWO COMP PLAN
YOU'LL NOTICE THROUGHOUT THE
THROUGHOUT THE SERIES HERE THAT
ALL OF THESE PROJECTS WILL BE
OR ALL OF THESE CODES WILL BE
BRINGING ATTENTION TO EITHER
ACTIVITIES OR ISSUES THAT ARE
RELEVANT THIS SUMMER THROUGHOUT
THE CITY.
AND SO I HOPE THAT YOU'LL
CONTINUE TO PARTICIPATE AND
PLAY.
AND ON THE TOPIC OF THE
LIBRARY, I WILL ALSO NOTE THAT
I KNOW MANY RESIDENTS HAVE
STARTED TO RECEIVE BALLOTS AT
HOME TO TO PARTICIPATE IN THE
AUGUST 5TH ELECTION.
WE HAVE TWO BALLOT PROPOSALS
THAT WOULD EMPOWER THE LIBRARY
TO BE ABLE TO BUILD A NEW STATE
OF THE ART LIBRARY IN OUR
DOWNTOWN AND SO I CONTINUE TO
ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO EDUCATE
THEMSELVES THAT I PERSONALLY
WILL BE SUPPORTING BOTH
PROPOSALS AND B AND JUST
ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO VOTE.
COUNCIL MEMBER BREEKS THANK YOU
.
IN THIS JOYFUL NEWS I WANTED TO
DESTROY ATTENTION TO ELEMENT
OF THE BIG UGLY BILL THAT
PASSED LAST WEEK AND THERE'S
BEEN A LOT OF CONVERSATION
AROUND THAT.
BUT THE IMPACTS TO US LOCALLY
IN TERMS OF WHAT IT MIGHT MEAN
FOR FOLKS IN OUR WHO HAVE
HOUSING VOUCHERS IS WE'RE
ANTICIPATING ABOUT A CUT
OF ABOUT 900 VOUCHERS LOCALLY
FROM THE ANNENBERG HOUSING
COMMISSION IS MY UNDERSTANDING
IT'S A 43 PERCENT CUT TO THE
VOUCHER PROGRAM BY THE U.S.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT THAT WOULD EQUATES
TO A 12 MILLION DOLLAR LOSS FOR
THE ENTIRE HOUSING COMMISSION
JENNIFER HALL REPORTED LAST
WEEK.
SO I'D LIKE TO THANK OUR
HOUSING PROVIDERS FOR WORKING
HARD TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW
WE COVER THIS INCREDIBLE LOSS
TO OUR COMMUNITY AND KEEP OUR
VULNERABLE POPULATIONS HOUSED
AS WE MOVE FORWARD.
FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL
.
I WOULD LIKE TO REQUEST THE
RECOMMEND FOR THE FOLLOWING
NOMINATE TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION BOARD
ROBIN HALL BRIAN CHAMBERS TO
THE TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
LAUREN DUNLAP.
FURTHER I'D LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENT AS PRESENTED TO
CITY COUNCIL TO JUNE 16 20 25
REGULAR SESSION TO THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT BOARD CORPORATION.
THERESA NICHOLS I HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNSEL
MCCONNELL SEEKING MY COUNSEL
PRIOR DISCUSSION ON FABER
OPPOSED IT'S APPROVED.
I WILL OBSERVE THAT IS ONE
PERHAPS COUNCILOR BRIGGS'S I
JUST GOT LOST OH MY APOLOGIES.
YEP.
NOW OBSERVE TO SEE THREE
RESOLUTION THREE POINT MICHELLE
MOROSI TO THE LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
FINANCE AUTHORITY BOARD WHICH
WILL BE UP FOR CONSIDERATION AT
OUR NEXT MEETING.
WE HAVE TO FORCE THE CONSENT
AGENDA MOVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
OH IS THE IS ONE FOR
CONSIDERATION TODAY OR IS THAT
FOR CONSIDERATION THAT THE
FIRST ONE IS UP.
SORRY MY APOLOGIES C ONE WHICH
IS A RESOLUTION TO REAPPOINT
JESSICA FRANCIS TO THE POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION IS UP FOR
IF YOU WILL NOTICE TODAY.
>> EXCELLENT THANK YOU.
>> WE HAVE BEFORE US CONSENT
AGENDA HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CONSENT AGENDA.
MUBI COUNCIL BALLOTS AND SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DESH
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S
SO I'D LIKE TO PROCEED NINE AND
THEN JUST MAKE COMMENTS AROUND
A FEW OTHERS SEE THREE THE
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORTATION
STUDY REALLY THANKFUL TO YOUR
STAFF FOR BEING PROACTIVE ON
THIS.
THIS IS A KIND
OF TRANSPORTATION PLANNING BUT
IT'LL RESULT IN ENGINEERING AND
PLANNING SERVICES SO THAT WE
CAN UNDERSTAND HOW TO BASICALLY
REDESIGN THE STREET SO WITH
SAFETY IN MIND AND INCREASE
MOBILITY OPTIONS FOR ALL USERS,
IMPROVING GATEWAYS AND
IMPROVING SAFETY PERFORMANCE SO
THINGS FOR STAFF ARE BEING
PROACTIVE SO THAT WE GET TO THE
POINT OF ACTUALLY REDESIGNING
THIS ROADWAY.
WE'VE GOT ALL THE INFORMATION
WE NEED ALSO THE DISTRIBUTION
OF THESE MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX
REBATE DOLLARS COULDN'T COME AT
A BETTER TIME IN TERMS OF OUR
DIVVYING THEM UP ONE HUNDRED
THIRTY SIX THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR
ADDICTION PREVENTION FIVE
HUNDRED SIXTY FIVE THOUSAND
DOLLARS FOR RISING HEALTH
HOUSING PROGRAM THAT WILL ALSO
ADDRESS TRAUMA INFORMED
ADDICTION PREVENTION.
SO WELL THAT WE'VE WE'VE SET
THOSE AMONG MANY OTHER GOOD
WORK SO GLAD WE'RE DOING THAT
AND THEN ALSO JUST WANTED TO
DRAW ATTENTION TO ANOTHER
HORRIBLE TRUMP CUT WITH THE
RESILIENCY HUBS WHERE WE WERE
AWARDED A ONE MILLION DOLLAR
GRANT BUT THAT WAS PULLED BACK
BUT THANKFUL THAT OUR
SUSTAINABILITY DEPARTMENT IS
STILL COMMITTED TO MOVING US
FORWARD ON DEVELOPING
RESILIENCY HUBS.
ZACHARY BAXTER COURT EMPLOYEES
NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER BUT
OBVIOUSLY THAT'S THAT'S IT'S
ALWAYS CHALLENGING TO STRETCH
OUR DOLLARS THINNER SO BUT
THANKS TO EVERYONE FOR DOING
THIS CHALLENGE, MCCRINDLE THERE
ARE A FEW GREAT THINGS CONSENT
AGENDA AND I SHARE OF NO BRIGS
ENTHUSIASM FOR THE NORTH MAIN
STREET PROJECT.
I JUST JUST WANTED TO CALL
QUICK ATTENTION TO SEE A SIX
WHICH IS A TWO YEAR
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
AGREEMENT WITH THE YPSILANTI
SMART ZONE LDV.
THIS BASICALLY ALLOWS THE CITY
TO PROVIDE OVERSIGHT AND
ESPECIALLY AROUND FINANCES TO
WHAT IS A PRETTY COMPLEX GRANT
HERE IN TOWN AND THAT FUNDING
ENABLES ARE A DOWNTOWN
INCUBATOR THAT SUPPORTS
STARTUPS.
SO BASICALLY KEEPING ALL OF THE
GREAT IDEAS THAT ORIGINATE FROM
THE SUPER SMART PEOPLE IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND EVEN AT THE ZOO
HERE IN ANN ARBOR WHERE THEY
CAN GROW THEIR COMPANIES AND
ATTRACT INVESTMENTS AND CREATE
JOBS.
IT DOES TAKE CITY STAFF TO
MANAGE THAT AND I'M GRATEFUL
FOR THE PROFESSIONALISM AND THE
EXPERTIZE THAT THEY BRING TO
THAT.
AND THEN SECONDLY C14 WHICH IS
A CONTRACT TO SPARK FOR
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SERVICES
TO THE CITY TO ATTRACT AND HELP
ESTABLISHED BUSINESSES GROW
HERE.
>> SO ON THE OPPOSITE SIDE
OF THE BUSINESS GROWTH SPECTRUM
WE HAVE THE SMALL STARTUPS THAT
REQUIRE HAVE REALLY DISTINCT
UNIQUE NEEDS AND THEN ON THE
OPPOSITE END ESTABLISHED
BUSINESSES WHICH HAVE NEEDS
THAT ARE DIFFERENT FROM THE
STARTUPS IN THE SMALLER
BUSINESSES AND SO SPARK DOES A
GREAT JOB OF ATTRACTING JOBS
HERE WHICH IN TURN CREATES
INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMUNITY AND
JOBS IN OUR COMMUNITY.
FOR INSTANCE, SARTORIUS LOCATED
HERE IN THE CITY OF ANN HARBOR
HAS INVESTED ONE HUNDRED
MILLION DOLLARS IN THE CITY AND
A FACILITY THERE AND THAT'S
THAT'S REALLY INCREDIBLE.
IT'S A HUGE BENEFIT.
SO IT FEELS LIKE SMALL A SMALL
INVESTMENT FOR A REALLY GREAT
RETURN AND IT'S A MEMBER
OF DENHA.
THANK YOU.
JUST BRIEFLY ON CNN RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE BYLAWS FOR THE
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE THAT'S
BEEN PULLED OH, SORRY.
THANK YOU.
CAST MEMBER ALSO JUST LIKE I
JUST LIKE TO COMMENT BRIEFLY ON
K SEVEN AND KATE, I'M SO GLAD
THAT IN SPITE OF ANY EPA GRANT
BEING TERMINATED THE CITY IS
FOLLOWING THROUGH ON ITS
COMMITMENT TO FUND RESILIENCE
WORK AT GREEN BACKSTROKER
COMMUNITY CENTER AND
NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER TWO CRUCIAL
COMMUNITY CENTERS PROVIDE
SERVICES TO OUR YOUTH LOW
INCOME RESIDENTS AND
MARGINALIZED COMMUNITIES
OVERSIZE DECISION TO FUND
RESILIENCE HUBS INCLUDING SOLAR
ENERGY AND BACKUP POWER STORAGE
WILL HELP MAINTAIN POWER AND
SERVICE PREVENTION AT THESE
COMMUNITY CENTERS DURING SEVERE
WEATHER EVENTS AND POWER
OUTAGES.
IF IT'S A FULL CIRCLE MOMENT
FOR ME BECAUSE IN HIGH SCHOOL I
WAS A TUTOR AND SUMMER PROGRAM
COUNSELOR GREENBACKS TO COURT I
LEARNED THE VALUE OF SERVICE AT
GREEN BAXTER AND GROWING UP
BLACK IN ARBOR IT WAS AN
EMPOWERING EXPERIENCE TO
VOLUNTEER IN A COMMUNITY WHERE
THE MAJORITY OF RESIDENTS
LOOKED LIKE ME.
I WAS BACK AT THE COMMUNITY
CENTER LAST AUGUST WHEN EPA
OFFICIALS CAME TOWARD THE CITY
A GRANT FOR THIS RESILIENCE
WORK INCLUDING PRESENTING US
WITH A PAPER CHECK FOR ONE
MILLION DOLLARS.
I'M GLAD THAT THE CITY CAN
MAINTAIN ITS COMMITMENT TO
GREENBACKS ACCORDING TO AND I'M
HOLDING OUT HOPE THAT THE
LEADERSHIP AT EPA WILL COME TO
ITS SENSES AND HONOR THE
COMMITMENT IT MADE IN THE FORM
OF THAT GRANT.
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON.
>> WHEN I SEE A FIVE AND THE
THE FUNDING THAT WENT TO EACH
TO HOUSING, TO HOUSING AND ALSO
THE RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING
PROGRAM, THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
IMPACTED BY THE CRIMINAL LEGAL
SYSTEM, EVEN THOSE WHO HOLD A
VOUCHER STILL FACE DOORS CLOSED
IN THEIR FACE.
THIS FUNDING HELPS WITH BASIC
RENT, UTILITIES, DIAPERS, FOOD
ARRIVED TO A JOB INTERVIEW OR A
SCHOOL MEETING OR A DOCTOR'S
APPOINTMENT WHATEVER IT TAKES
TO HELP SOMEONE STAY HOUSED AND
STAY STABLE.
THIS IS REALLY LONG TERM WORK
AND IT HAPPENS THROUGH
VOLUNTARY TRAUMA INFORMED CASE
MANAGEMENT THAT SEES PEOPLE AS
PEOPLE AND NOT FOR THE WORST
THING THAT THEY DID.
THIS IS WHAT REAL COMMUNITY
INVESTMENT CAN LOOK LIKE WHEN
WE'RE SERIOUS ABOUT REPAIRING
HARM FROM PAST POLICIES.
I'M PROUD I WAS PROUD TO LEAD
THAT THAT BUDGET AMENDMENT AND
I'M PROUD THAT WE I'M REALLY
THANKFUL TO MY PEERS FOR
SUPPORTING IT AND I'M VERY
PROUD THAT WE'RE MOVING THESE
FUNDS WHERE THEY BELONG AND
THAT'S INTO THE HANDS OF THOSE
WORKING TO STAY AFLOAT AND TO
MOVE FORWARD IN THEIR LIVES.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK THE
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS THAT
ARE DOING THIS WORK EVERY DAY.
YOUR COMMITMENT TO THIS
POPULATION MAKES THIS POSSIBLE
.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
OF THE CONTENTS GENDER ALL IN
FAVOR.
YOU CAN GET THE GENERAL
ACCEPTANCE CNI OPPOSED THE
CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF S.A. NINE APPROVED
WITH ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING THE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
RESPECT TO THE TEN YEAR ELEVEN
TWELVE CANINE RESOLUTION
APPROVED BYLAWS OF THE
SUSTAINABILITY COMMISSION MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
KERNELL DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF CNN COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKE'S
YEAH I WANTED TO THANK MR.
CARVER FOR BRINGING UP THE
ISSUE AROUND THE BYLAWS THAT HE
DID SO FOLKS WHO KNOW WHO'VE
SERVED ON COMMISSIONS WITH ME I
OFTEN MAKE THIS AS SUGGESTS
THIS CHANGE MYSELF WHEN I'M IN
THIS COMMISSION.
SO I ACTUALLY COULD PASS SHARE
AROUND IN A PROPOSED AMENDMENT
I'D LIKE TO INTRODUCE THAT
BECAUSE I'VE RECEIVED THAT AND
THEN I WILL EXPLAIN IT'S
FARSEEING.
I'M
SO I'D LIKE TO PROPOSE JUST
A COUPLE OF SMALL EDITS.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT DESPITE
THE FACT THAT I HAD EYES ON
THIS I JUST DIDN'T PICK UP ON
THE FACT THAT WE HAD THIS IN
THERE.
I THINK IT'S SOMEWHAT STANDARD
IN TERMS OF OUR GENERAL BYLAWS.
I'M PROPOSING AMENDMENT TO
SEVEN POINT TWELVE TO INCREASE
THE SPEAKING TIME PERIOD FROM
TWO MINUTES TO THREE MINUTES
AND THEN AN EIGHT POINT TO TO
ADD IN A SECOND PUBLIC COMMENT
PERIOD AT THE END OF THE
MEETING FOLLOWING
COMMUNICATIONS AND BEFORE
ADJOURNMENT, THE SECOND
SECONDED BY CHARLES MCCONNELL
KMA BRIGGS.
>> YEAH.
AND SO YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT
THIS IS A FAIRLY GOOD PRACTICE
TO HAVE PUBLIC COMMENT BOTH AT
BEGINNING AND END ALLOWS FOLKS
JUST AS MR. GARBER MENTIONED
YOU AN OPPORTUNITY TO TO
REFLECT ON EITHER END OF THE
MEETING AND IN OUR COMMISSION
MEETINGS I FIND THAT THEY'RE
NOT TYPICALLY OVERRUN WITH
PUBLIC COMMENT AND I THINK OUR
STANDARD TIME TYPICALLY IS
AROUND THREE MINUTES AND THE
COMMISSIONS THAT I'VE SERVED
AND SO I DON'T ANTICIPATE THAT
THIS IS GOING TO BE BURDENSOME
FOR FOR THE COMMISSION FOR
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL.
WE'RE DENHA.
>> THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I AM SUPPORTIVE POTENTIALLY
OF THE CHANGE TO THE TO THE
THREE MINUTES ON THE AGENDA
WHICH IS RELATIVELY CONSISTENT
AND THE COMMISSIONERS I SERVE
ON I'M PERHAPS DISINCLINED TO
SUPPORT ADDING A SECOND PUBLIC
COMMENT PERIOD NOT BECAUSE I
MEAN I HAVE SERVED ON ENERGY
COMMISSION AND WORKS WELL THERE
BUT IF WE WERE APPROVING BYLAWS
TONIGHT BASED ON OUR MODEL
BYLAWS AND REQUESTING A
PRACTICE OF A COMMISSION WE
DON'T HAVE AT THIS TABLE IS NOT
SOMETHING I'M INCLINED TO DO
WITHOUT THEM ASKING TO DO SO.
AND SO YOU KNOW, WE'RE WE'RE
SENDING THEM THEIR BYLAWS.
THEY ARE CERTAINLY ABLE TO
RECOMMEND THOSE CHANGES
BACK
AND TO MAKE THEM AND THAT'S
SOMETHING I WOULD ENCOURAGE THE
COMMISSION TO DO IF IT WORKS
FOR THEM.
BUT I WOULD NOT NECESSARILY BE
INCLINED TO SUPPORT SOMETHING
THAT'S OUTSIDE OF OUR NORMAL
MODEL BYLAWS WITHOUT THAT
REQUEST COMING FROM THE
COMMISSION ITSELF.
PERHAPS WE DIVIDE THE QUESTION.
SO LET'S DEAL WITH THE FIRST
QUESTION FIRST IF WE MAY WITH
RESPECT NEARLY THE TIME IS THE
TIME CHANGE FRIENDLY THE BODY
TYPE CHANGES FROM THE BODY.
WE'RE NOW JUST ENGAGED IN THE
QUESTION OF THE SECOND COMMENT
PERIOD.
I CALL COUNCILMAN MEL.
I ALSO WOULD LIKE TO THANK MR.
GARBER FOR BRINGING US TO OUR
ATTENTION IN HIGHLIGHTING IT AS
WELL AS COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS.
THANK YOU FOR TAKING THE LEAD
ON THIS IN TERMS OF ADDING A
SECOND PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD.
I OF COURSE HAVE NOT BEEN ON
VARIOUS COMMISSIONS FOR LONG.
HOWEVER, IN MY SHORT TIME I CAN
SAY IT DOES NOT ADD A
SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF TIME TO
THE LENGTH OF A MEETING AND IT
IS SOMETIMES NICE TO HAVE
ENGAGED MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY CALL IN BOTH AT THE
BEGINNING AND THEN RESPOND TO
WHATEVER OCCURRED DURING THE
MEETING AT THE END.
SO I GENERALLY AM SUPPORTIVE
OF THE ADDITION OF A SECOND
PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL BRYNER YEAH
I'M I'M A LITTLE CONFUSED
BECAUSE I IN MY EXPERIENCE I
HAVE NOT THE BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS I'VE SAT ON HAVE
NOT HAD TO SEPARATE COMMENT
PERIODS AND AND WE DON'T WE
PURPOSEFULLY REMOVED THAT
SECOND COMMENT PERIOD FROM THIS
BODY FOR REASONS RELATED TO
LENGTH OF MEETING BUT ALSO, YOU
KNOW, FEELING THAT IT IT WAS
NOT IT WAS NOT ADDING VALUE AND
IT WAS FORCING PEOPLE TO STAY
LONGER.
>> TO REHASH WHAT JUST HAPPENED
DURING THE MEETING.
SO I'M I'M INCLINED TO TO KIND
OF MOVE IN THE DIRECTION THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA JUST
INDICATED THAT IF IF THE
COMMISSION ITSELF WANTS TO ADD
IT, I'D BE MORE OPEN TO IT.
>> BUT TO ME THIS THIS IT'S
OUTSIDE OF WHAT WE NORMALLY DO
AND IT'S NOT CONSISTENT WITH
THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS I SIT
ON NOR WITH THIS BODY ITSELF.
SO I WOULDN'T SUPPORT IT
ELSEWHERE.
BRUCE AND PERHAPS I THINK THIS
SUGGESTS THAT WE HAVE OUR
BYLAWS DIFFER A LITTLE BIT
BETWEEN VARIOUS COMMISSIONS
THAT WE HAVE.
I DO THINK THERE'S A DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN OUR ADVISORY MISSIONS
AND THE BODY THE BODY HERE THIS
IS A BUSINESS MEETING THAT
WE'RE IN THE WORK OF A LOT
OF TIMES THE WORK OF A COUNCIL
IN TERMS OF BEING ABLE TO
DEBATE AND GET MORE FEEDBACK
HAPPENS WITHIN THE COURSE
OF THOSE COMMISSIONS.
AND SO I THINK THAT AS A SPACE
WHERE I HAVEN'T EVER NOTICED A
CHALLENGE OF HAVING PUBLIC
COMMENT AT THE BEGINNING THEIR
END AND THAT'S A SPACE WHERE I
THINK IT'S IT'S A LITTLE BIT
MORE APPROPRIATE TO HAVE
ADDITIONAL PUBLIC COMMENT FOR
US HERE.
I THINK IT'S A IT'S A LITTLE WE
HAVE NOTICED SOME CHALLENGES
WHETHER OR NOT IT'S NECESSARILY
ADDITIONAL VALUE AT THE END
OF OUR MEETINGS FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL DENHA VERY
BRIEFLY AND I'LL ADD YOU KNOW,
I DON'T HAVE ANY I DO NOT FEEL
STRONGLY ABOUT THIS.
I DON'T HAVE OPPOSITION TO THE
ADDITION OF ADDITIONAL PUBLIC
COMMENT.
I THINK IT'S REALLY MORE FOR ME
ABOUT KIND OF WHAT OUR STANDARD
PRACTICES.
AND SO I THINK I GUESS I WOULD
ALSO JUST ADD THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT WE EXPECT OF OUR ADVISORY
BOARDS IF WE'RE PASSING BY LAWS
THAT ARE SUPPOSED TO BE THE
STANDARD BYLAWS WE SHOULD
CHANGE THEM THE STANDARD BUT
RATHER TO IMPOSE THAT AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE PROCESS
WITHOUT THE INPUT OF THE
COMMISSION ITSELF SEEMS A
LITTLE OUT OF STEP FOR ME.
AND SO AGAIN I HAVE NO STRONG
FEELINGS ABOUT THIS IN TERMS
OF THE ACTUAL CONTENT HERE.
I AGREE THAT I DON'T THINK IT
ADDS A LOT OF EXTRA TIME TO THE
MEETING IN THE COMMISSION
SETTING BUT BUT FOR ME IT'S
SIMPLY IF THIS IS AN AMENDMENT
THAT THE COMMISSION ITSELF
WANTS TO MAKE, I WOULD BE FULLY
SUPPORTIVE.
I JUST THINK IF IT'S OUTSIDE
OF OUR OUR STANDARD MODEL
BYLAWS THEN I'M NOT GOING TO
SUPPORT IT AT THE BEGINNING
OF SUMMER.
>> NO, I WOULD JUST NOTE THE
SUSTAINABILITY COMMISSION'S
FIRST MEETING IS SCHEDULED FOR
TUESDAY, AUGUST 12TH AT SIX
P.M. I THINK THAT'S CORRECT.
SO PER COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
SUGGESTION ALLOWING THE
COMMISSION TO MAKE THE DECISION
IT'S POSSIBLE WE COULD DELAY
THIS DECISION ON THE SECOND
PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD TO AUGUST
12 AND LET THE COMMISSION
DECIDE AND THEN TAKE IT UP
AFTERWARDS
.
COUNCILOR, THE I'M A LITTLE
CONFUSED.
I WONDER IF THEY NEED BYLAWS
BEFORE THEY MEET THE FIRST
TIME.
BUT I WAS GOING TO NOTE THAT IN
VIEW OF THE FACT THAT THEY
DON'T EXIST YET, YOU KNOW, WE'D
NEED TO HEAR FROM THEM AND IN
VIEW OF THE FACT THAT THE TWO
COMMISSIONS WELL, I KNOW THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION ALWAYS
HAD BEFORE AND AFTER AND I
BELIEVE THE ENERGY COMMISSION
HAS BEFORE AND AFTER.
SO IT MAKES SENSE TO CARRY OVER
IF IT'S THE COMMISSION THAT'S
MERGING THOSE TWO, I THINK IT
MAKES SENSE TO CARRY OVER THAT
PRACTICE WOULD ALSO MAKE SENSE
TO LET THE COMMISSION AFFIRM
THAT IT WOULD LIKE TO CARRY THE
NEW COMMISSION.
IT DOES YET AFFIRM THAT IT
WOULD LIKE TO CARRY OVER THE
PRACTICE.
SO I WOULD WELCOME THEM ASKING
US TO APPROVE THAT AND WOULD
SUPPORT IT COUNCIL RATMAN?
OH, FOR MY PART DELIGHTED TO
VOTE YES ON THIS IF THAT IS
WHAT THE COMMISSION WANTS.
BUT IF OUR IF AND AS OUR MODEL
BYLAWS DON'T PROVIDE FOR IT, I
THINK I WOULD BE DISINCLINED TO
VOTE IN FAVOR OF THIS.
BUT I WELCOME THE REVISION IF
THAT'S WHAT THE COMMISSION
WANTS DOWNSTREAM FURTHER
DISCUSSION BUT YOUR MILEAGE MAY
VARY ROLLERBALL PLEASE START
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER BREAKS
FREE.
>> YES, THIS ON THIS ON THE
AMENDMENT.
>> MY APOLOGIES COUNCIL OUR
YES.
OUR DISH THIS IS THE SECOND
PART OF THE AMENDMENT BECAUSE
THE FIRST PART CORRECT WE ARE
YEAH OK NO NO NO HARISSA NO
COUNCILOR WATSON.
YES YES THAT'S OUR DENHA NO
LET'S WORK OUT THE OTHER ONE.
>> YES TAYLOR NO CUSTOMER IA NO
MOTION FAILS I DON'T GET THE
VOTE.
OH I'M SORRY ERM YES BENSONS
VOTED MOTION PASS BY APOLOGY
FURTHER DISCUSS THE MAIN MOTION
AS AMENDED OF SORRY COUNCIL
PETITION.
I THINK THIS IS A DELIGHTFUL
OUTCOME AND I'M VERY HAPPY TO
SUPPORT THE RESOLUTION AND
SUPPORT THE RIGHT OF EVERY
MEMBER OF THIS BODY TO VOTE.
IT'S IRONIC THAT OUR CLERK
SHOULD HAVE BEEN THE
DISENFRANCHIZING AGENT BUT YOU
KNOW WE TAKE CREDIT.
>> WE DIGRESS FOR THE
DISCUSSION IN FAVOR OF HOSED.
IT IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE NO PUBLIC HEARINGS
TODAY.
WE HAVE TO FORCE THE REGULAR
SESSION MINUTES OF JUNE 16TH.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE WE HAVE A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THIS
MESSAGE BY COUNCILOR PAUL
WATSON SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF THE MINUTES OUR FAVOR
OPPOSED THE MINUTES ARE
APPROVED DC IN ONE RESOLUTION
APPROVING THE RECOMMENDATION
OF THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR FOR
THE TIMING OF BOND ISSUANCE FOR
THE RBA S PROJECT MOVE CAST
MEMBER SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC ONE I WILL GET STARTED
OFF PLEASE WARMING UP TO
WARMING UP TO AMENDMENT AS
FOLKS KNOW THE PURPOSE OF THIS
THE PURPOSE OF THIS RESOLUTION
IT LET ME PUT MY TIME HERE ON
PURPOSE OF THIS RESOLUTION IS
TO PROVIDE SOME DIRECTIONALITY
TO STAFF AS TO THE TIMING
OF POTENTIAL BONDS ASSOCIATED
WITH THE RBA S PROJECT I FOR MY
PART I AM EXTREMELY GRATEFUL
FOR STAFF THE WORK THAT THEY
HAVE DONE ON THIS MATTER HAVING
WORKED HARD TO PUT TOGETHER A
PUBLIC PRIVATE ENGAGEMENT THAT
LOOKS TO BRING OVER A THOUSAND
HOUSING UNITS INCLUDING 250
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS
OF HOTEL SUBSTANTIAL COMMERCIAL
ENTERPRISES TO FORM A
RESIDENTIAL A NEW RESIDENTIAL
AND COMMERCIAL HUB IN OUR CITY
HOPEFULLY SPURRING ADDITIONAL
GROWTH IN THIS WOEFULLY
UNDERUTILIZED AREA OF OUR
COMMUNITY.
ANOTHER PART OF THIS GRATITUDE
IS THAT I AM EXTREMELY GRATEFUL
THAT STAFF HAS SUBSTANTIAL
EXPERTIZE IN THIS AREA MR TONY,
MR GIANT AND SO FORTH IN
GUIDING PUBLIC COMPONENTS
OF THESE PUBLIC PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIPS AND I FURTHER AM
GRATEFUL FOR MR HOENESS
FINANCIAL STEWARDSHIP OF THE
CITY DURING HIS TENURE HERE
HELPING GUIDE US TO A MUCH
SOUGHT AFTER TRIPLE A BOND
RATING IN THE PRESENCE OF THAT
GRATITUDE FOR THIS EXPERIENCE.
HOWEVER, I WILL ALSO OBSERVE
THAT WE AS A COMMUNITY ARE LESS
EXPERIENCED IN THESE MATTERS
AND AS CONFIDENT AS I AM IN
STAFF REVIEW I AM ALSO MINDFUL
OF THE NOVELTY OF THIS VENTURE
FOR US.
AND SO FOR MY PART I'D LIKE TO
EXHIBIT A HEIGHTENED CAUTION
AND WOULD ASK FOR A COUNCIL
MEMBER TO BRING FORWARD AN
AMENDMENT THAT HAS BEEN SENT TO
THE CLERK.
SIR, PLEASE CAN I PLEASE
DISTRIBUTE THAT
IT HAVING BEEN
THE SUBJECT OF A MOTION PLEASE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
MALIK.
THANK YOU.
IF I CAN GRAB THE FLOOR WITH
RESPECT TO THE AMENDMENT WHAT
THE AMENDMENT DOES FOR THE
PURPOSES FOR THE COUNCIL AND
FOR THE PUBLIC IT WOULD REMOVE
THE FIRST TO RESOLVED CLAUSES
AND ADD IN ITS STEAD WHEREAS
CITY COUNCIL RESPECTS STAFF
EXPERTIZE AND ADVICE AND WISHES
TO PROCEED WITH ADDITIONAL
CAUTION RESOLVED THE CITY
COUNCIL DIRECTS THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO CONTINUE
NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE DEVELOPER
OF ARBOR S ON THE FOLLOWING
BASIS THAT THE CITY ISSUE BONDS
AFTER CONSTRUCTION OF THE
INITIAL PUBLIC PARKING DECK FOR
THE HARBOR S PROJECT BUT THAT
THE CITY ISSUE BONDS BEFORE
CONSTRUCTION FOR SUBSEQUENT TAX
PROVIDED THAT THE CITY RETAIN
THE OPTION TO ISSUE BONDS AFTER
CONSTRUCTION BASED UPON THE
THEN CURRENT MARKET CONDITIONS.
VERY BRIEFLY THE THE MEMO I
MEAN THE RESOLUTION DOES ASK
FOR STAIRSTEP FOR
DIRECTIONALITY FROM COUNCIL
WITH RESPECT TO THE THE TIMING
OF THESE BONDS THE STAFF NOW
REQUESTS AUTHORITY WITH RESPECT
TO ISSUING THE BONDS
DIRECTIONALITY WITH RESPECT TO
THE BONDS BEFORE BEFORE BEFORE
IT WOULD BE THE EFFECT OF THIS
RESOLUTION TO INSTEAD ISSUE THE
BONDS AFTER CONSTRUCTION THE
FIRST BOND AND THEN A DEFAULT
OF BEFORE AND BEFORE FOR THE
NEXT TWO BONDS WITH THE
RETAINED CITY OPTION TO ISSUE
THE BONDS AFTER CONSTRUCTION IF
THEN CURRENT IF THEN MARKET
CONDITIONS ADVICE THAT IS THE
PROPOSED AMENDMENT.
I THINK THAT'S A WISE
MODULATION OF RISK AND REFLECTS
BOTH STAFF'S EXPERTIZE AND THE
COUNCILS AND COMMUNITIES
OBSERVES THE NOVELTY OF THIS
VENTURE AND MITIGATES RISK THAT
WE ARE LOOKING TO TO CONSIDER.
>> AND SO WHAT THAT DOES THAT
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
AMENDMENT COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
I THANK YOU BRIEFLY JUST THANK
YOU MAYOR FOR BRINGING THIS
FORWARD.
I THINK THIS BETTER REFLECTS MY
PERSONAL COMFORT WITH THE LEVEL
OF RISK ASSOCIATED WITH THIS
PROJECT.
OBVIOUSLY MITIGATING SOME
ADDITIONAL RISK FOR FOR THE
CITY AS WE MOVE FORWARD WITH
THIS IS IMPORTANT TO ME AND SO
I'M GRATEFUL FOR YOU TO
BRINGING IT AND WE'LL BE
SUPPORTING IT.
THE COUNCIL MEMBER MALIK I TOO
WANT TO THANK THE CITY STAFF
FOR ALL THE WORK THAT THEY'VE
DONE ON THIS PROJECT.
I GENERALLY CONSIDER MYSELF
PRETTY RISK AVERSE SO I
APPRECIATE THE MANY
CONVERSATIONS RECENTLY THAT
HAVE HELPED ME CLARIFY SOME
OF THE RISK AS WELL AS THE
FINANCIAL IMPACTS THAT THIS
BONDING DECISION COULD HAVE.
I APPRECIATE THE AMENDMENT AND
I THINK IT APPROPRIATELY
BALANCES THE RISK WITH THE
FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS FOR THE
TIME BEING.
>> SO I WILL BE SUPPORTING IT
TONIGHT.
>> COUNCILOR BRITISH I WANT TO
THANK EVERYONE FOR WORKING HARD
ON THIS RESOLUTION AND BRINGING
FORWARD I WANT TO I WILL
SUPPORT IT BECAUSE I HONOR THE
FACT THAT MANY FOLKS IN THE
COMMUNITY AND MANY OF US ON
THIS BOARD DON'T HAVE A
EXPERIENCE WITH THIS KIND OF A
LARGE PROJECT.
BUT I ALSO WANT TO NOTE THAT WE
ARE ALWAYS IN THE BUSINESS
OF TRADE OFFS AND IN THIS ONE
WHAT'S IT WHAT WHAT WE ARE
GIVING UP A BIT OF IT'S
IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND THAT BY
FINANCING BY PURCHASING THE
DECKS AFTER THEY'VE BEEN BUILT
THEY WILL BE PRIVATELY FINANCED
OVER THE TIME OF BUILDING THEM
WHICH IS EXPENSIVE PRIVATE
FINANCING COSTS LESS I'M SORRY
FINANCING COSTS MORE THAN
MUNICIPAL BONDS AND SO THE
EFFECT WILL BE TO RAISE THE
COST TO THE CITY OF PURCHASING
THE DECKS.
IT IS NOT CLEAR EXACTLY HOW
MUCH IT WILL RAISE THE COST BUT
THE ESTIMATE ONE ESTIMATE IS
THAT IF WE PURCHASED ALL OF IT,
IF WE BONDED FOR THE DECKS ALL
THREE OF THEM BEFORE THEY WERE
CONSTRUCTED THAT WOULD SAVE
THIRTY MILLION DOLLARS IN
FINANCING COSTS.
SO WE ARE LIKELY TO LOSE
SOMEWHERE AROUND A THIRD TO
PROBABLY LESS THAN A HALF BUT A
LITTLE MORE THAN A THIRD
OF THAT MONEY AND THAT MONEY
CAN GO INTO BUILDING THE
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WE NEED TO
SUPPORT THAT PROJECT AND ITS
IMPORTANT MONEY BECAUSE IT'S
MONEY THAT IS NOT TIED TO USERS
.
SO IT'S A WAY OF EXTENDING
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WE CAN
SIMPLY HAVE.
WE CAN SIMPLY PUT IT THERE
BECAUSE WE DON'T NEED TO FIRST
GET PEOPLE TO HOOK UP AND WE
OBVIOUSLY BY LAW CANNOT PUT
THAT COST ON THE BACKS
OF CURRENT TAXPAYERS.
SO THIS IS CRUCIAL MONEY BUT
RISK IS ALSO REAL AND I THINK
THIS IS A GOOD MIDDLE WAY THAT
I SUPPORT BECAUSE IT WILL COME
AT A TIME WHEN WE HAVE MORE
INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROJECT
AND I THINK WE CAN ALL FEEL
MORE COMFORTABLE AND MAKE A
STRONGER CASE THAT THIS IS A
TERRIFIC VISION AND A WONDERFUL
PROJECT FOR ARBOR FOR THE
DISCUSSION OF THE AMENDMENT.
COUNCILOR WATSON, A LOT OF MY
COLLEAGUES HAVE COVERED THESE
POINTS BUT I JUST WANTED TO
REITERATE THAT THIS MITIGATES
RISK TO THE CITY FOR THE FIRST
PARKING DECK WHILE THE PROJECT
IS GETTING OFF OFF THE GROUND
BUT THEN MAXIMIZES THE AMOUNT
OF TIFE AVAILABLE POTENTIALLY
FOR INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
IN THE LAST TWO PHASES OF THE
PROJECT.
SO THAT'S THAT'S WHY THIS
AMENDMENT STRIKES ME AS A GOOD
COMPROMISE.
>> WE'RE SUPPORTING FURTHER
DISCUSSION THAT COUNCILOR RYAN
I CAN SEE WHERE THIS IS GOING
TO GO SO I'M NOT GOING TO FIGHT
HARD ON THIS BUT I WILL SAY
THAT I WAS COMFORTABLE WITH
STAFF'S RECOMMENDATION.
I FEEL THAT OUR CITY STAFF HAVE
REALLY LOOKED AT WHAT THE REAL
RISK IS TO THE CITY AND FELT
THAT THERE WAS NOT ENOUGH RISK
THAT EXISTED IN ORDER TO IN
ORDER TO GIVE UP WHAT WE'RE
GIVING UP.
AND SO THAT'S WHY THEY
RECOMMENDED THAT WE GO AHEAD
AND AND DO IT THE OTHER WAY FOR
ALL THREE I CAN APPRECIATE
THAT.
YOU KNOW, THIS IS A NEW THING
THAT WE'RE DOING HERE AND A LOT
OF FOLKS ARE RISK AVERSE BUT
WE'VE HAD CONSULTANTS LOOK AT
THIS.
WE'VE HAD OUR CITY STAFF LOOK
AT THIS.
WE'VE GOT FOLKS ON CITY STAFF
WHO HAVE TONS OF EXPERTIZE
DOING THESE TYPES OF THINGS AND
OTHER CITIES BETWEEN MR DELANEY
AND MR GIANT AND THEY WERE
COMFORTABLE WITH GOING AHEAD
AND HAVING THEM FINANCED.
UM, PUBLICLY.
SO IN ORDER THAT WE COULD
MAXIMIZE THE MONEY TO SUPPORT
OUR INFRASTRUCTURE.
>> SO I I'M NOT REALLY SURE WHY
WE'RE DOING THIS.
>> I CAN APPRECIATE THAT.
YOU KNOW, IF THAT'S NECESSARY
TO GET EVERYONE ON BOARD.
>> THAT'S WHAT WE'VE GOT TO DO.
BUT I REALLY WISH WE DIDN'T
HAVE TO DO IT THIS WAY SO THAT
WE COULD MAXIMIZE THOSE TIF
DOLLARS FOR OUR INFRASTRUCTURE.
>> THANKS.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
AMENDMENT ALL IN FAVOR OF THE
AMENDMENT PROPOSED AMENDMENT IS
APPROVED FURTHER DISCUSSION THE
MAIN MOTION AS AMENDED COUNCIL
MEMBER REX, THANKS.
UM, SO I KNOW WE'VE ALL
EXPRESSED A COMMITMENT TO
INCREASING OUR HOUSING SUPPLY
TO ADDRESS THE SKYROCKETING
HOUSING COSTS MANARA SO I FULLY
UNDERSTAND THE INITIAL
ENTHUSIASM AROUND A DEVELOPMENT
THAT PROPOSES A PROMISING A
THOUSAND NEW UNITS OF HOUSING.
UNFORTUNATELY THE RBA S
PROPOSAL WHICH RELIES ON A
THREE HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS
PUBLIC FUNDING DOESN'T DELIVER
UPON COMMUNITY PLANNING OR
TRANSPORTATION GOALS.
INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDS ARE
ULTIMATELY AND ULTIMATELY IT
CHALLENGES OUR COMMUNITY
AFFORDABILITY.
SO I'M GOING TO DISCUSS AGAIN
ISSUE AROUND PLANNING SO AS WE
KNOW ONE ZONING AIMS TO
FACILITATE MIXED USE
DEVELOPMENT THAT CAN BE MORE
SUSTAINABLE BECAUSE OF THE
CLOSE PROXIMITY TO STRONG
TRANSIT SERVICE.
HOWEVER, AS THE RIDE SHARED
WITH THE CITY IN A LETTER IN
EARLY JUNE, THE STRUCTURE
OF THIS DEAL IS LIKELY TO
DECREASE THE QUALITY OF SERVICE
IN THE AREA.
>> MATT CARPENTER, EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE RIGHT, WROTE
AND ARTICULATED THE ISSUE WELL.
HE WROTE RISING PROPERTY VALUES
CREATE MORE TAX REVENUE FROM
VOTER APPROVED TRANSIT MILEAGES
WHICH WE USE TO AUGMENT
SERVICES AND SERVE A GROWING
POPULATION.
OUR UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THE
INCREASE IN TAX REVENUE FROM
THIS SITE WILL BE REORIENTED
FOR THE 30 PLUS YEARS TO
PROVIDE DEBT SERVICE ON THREE
PARKING GARAGES FOR THIS
PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT.
HE GOES ON TO SHARE THAT
WITHOUT ADDITIONAL FUNDING THE
RIGHT'S ONLY OPTIONS COULD BE
TO ACCEPT POOR SERVICE IN THIS
ONE AREA OF SOUTH AND CUT
SERVICES FROM OTHER PARTS THE
COMMUNITY TO SERVE NEW
RESIDENTS OR RAISE TAXES AREA
WIDE.
>> I WOULD HOPE WE ALL WOULD
AGREE THAT THAT'S NOT AN
ACCEPTABLE OUTCOME.
SECONDLY, I'D LIKE TO SPEAK TO
A COMMUNITY AFFORDABILITY.
I DON'T WANT US TO FORGET THAT
TRANSPORTATION IS THE SECOND
HIGHEST COST IN HOUSEHOLD
BUDGETS WHEN WE INVEST IN
WALKABILITY, LIKABILITY AND
GOOD TRANSIT SERVICE WE'RE
MAKING OUR COMMUNITY MORE
AFFORDABLE AND THIS IS
IMPORTANT FOR ALL RESIDENTS,
NOT JUST THOSE IN DEDICATED
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
THE RIGHT HAS EXPRESSED AN
INTEREST IN PARTNERING WITH THE
DEVELOPER TO ADDRESS
TRANSPORTATION NEEDS INSTEAD
OF SINKING OUR PUBLIC DOLLARS
AND AGREEING TO MAINTAIN AND
OPERATE THREE PARKING GARAGES
IN PERPETUITY.
>> WE SHOULD BE ENCOURAGING THE
DEVELOPER TO TAKE THE RIGHT UP
ON THEIR WILLINGNESS TO PARTNER
AND TO CREATE A FREE OR
DISCOUNTED BUS PASS PROGRAM OR
OTHER ALL OTHER OPTIONS BUT
PERHAPS
YOU THINK A HEFTY
PUBLIC SUBSIDY SUBSIDY VIA THE
TIF IS JUST WHAT'S REQUIRED TO
GET DENSE INFILL HOUSING IN
THIS AREA?
PERHAPS WE JUST NEED TO
SUBSIDIZE THE PARKING TO GET
HOUSING BUT RECENT HISTORY
SUGGESTS OTHERWISE.
IN OCTOBER OF TWENTY TWENTY
THREE COUNCIL APPROVED AN ALL
ELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT AT
BRIARWOOD WHICH PROVIDES THREE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY FOUR UNITS
OF MULTIFAMILY HOUSING NEW
SIDEWALKS PARTNERED WITH A RTA
ON BUS STOPS ADA ENHANCEMENTS
MADE AT CROSSINGS, ROAD
RECONFIGURATIONS AND IT
INCLUDES A FOUR LEVEL PARKING
GARAGE WITH 301 SPACES ALL THIS
WAS DONE WITH NO PUBLIC SUBSIDY
AND THE INCREASE IN TAX REVENUE
FROM THIS DEVELOPMENT WILL NOT
ONLY BENEFIT THE CITY BUT OTHER
PUBLIC AGENCIES LIKE JTA AND
OTHER PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
>> SO FOR ALL THESE REASONS,
REGARDLESS OF THE TIMING OF THE
BOND ISSUANCE WHICH I DO YOU
THINK IS IT'S BETTER AS AMENDED
I JUST CAN'T SUPPORT ISSUING
BONDS FOR THESE PARKING GARAGES
SO I'M NOT GOING TO SUPPORT THE
TIMING TONIGHT EITHER.
>> COUNCILOR ER THANK YOU.
I WAS WONDERING IF EITHER MR
GIANT OR SOMEONE FROM THE
PROJECT TEAM COULD ADDRESS SOME
OF THE ISSUES RAISED BY THE
RYDE LETTER WHICH IS MY
UNDERSTANDING WAS BASED ON SOME
MISUNDERSTOOD NUMBERS GEORGIA
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FOR THE
CITY AND I BELIEVE WE HAVE
MARTY OUR CFO ON THE LINE AND
REPS FROM PFM OUR FINANCIAL
CONSULTANT.
YES THE RIGHT SO I CAME INTO
THIS IN MARCH I THINK SHORTLY
THEREAFTER WE HAD WE HAD A
MEETING WHERE WE TALKED ABOUT
JUST THE IMPORTANCE OF MAKING
SURE THAT THIS DEVELOPMENT
LOOKED AT HOME TRANSPORTATION
SAFETY, MULTIMODAL OPTIONS AND
SUSTAINABILITY TO THE EXTENT
THAT WE ACTUALLY YOU KNOW,
PASSED A RESOLUTION TO REENGAGE
THE DEVELOPER TO MAKE SURE THAT
THOSE THINGS MADE THEIR WAY
INTO THE PLAN.
I THINK THAT WAS IN APRIL AND
SINCE THEN WE'VE MET WITH THE
DEVELOPMENT TEAM VERY REGULARLY
JUST ANYWAYS.
BUT THAT PARTICULAR TOPIC HAS
TAKEN A LOT OF TIME TO MAKE
SURE THAT THEY WERE, YOU KNOW,
REALLY PROPERLY ADDRESSED AND
THEY ABSOLUTELY MADE THE
PROJECT BETTER AND I'M GLAD WE
DID THAT AS PART OF THAT WE
ENGAGE THE RIDE.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE
DEVELOPMENT TEAM IN THE CITY
WAS BEFORE THEN I WASN'T HERE.
BUT I CAN TELL YOU THAT AFTER
THAT APRIL AMENDMENT WE WORK
WITH THEM VERY CAREFULLY TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE WERE
LISTENING TO WHAT THEY WHAT
THEIR CONCERNS WERE AND MAKING
SURE THAT TO THE EXTENT THAT WE
COULD INTEGRATE THEM INTO THE
PROJECT FROM I KNOW THAT I'VE
MET WITH THEM PERSONALLY.
I KNOW THE DEVELOPMENT TEAM
HAS.
WE'VE AMENDED THE PLANS TO MAKE
SURE THAT THE RIDE THE BUS
STOPS THAT THEY WANTED ARE
GOING TO BE PART OF THE
DEVELOPMENT.
I THINK THAT THE WAY THAT THEY
CHARACTERIZE THE LETTER IT'S
YOU KNOW, IT'S THE BUS
ADVOCATING FOR YOU MULTI-MODAL
TRANSIT THEY SHOULD I THINK
THAT THEY EXPECTED THE
DEMOGRAPHICS OF THE DEVELOPMENT
WOULD BE MORE STUDENT HEAVY
THAN I THINK THE DEVELOPMENT
TEAM IS ANTICIPATING WHICH
WOULD BE A DIFFERENT MODE
SHARE.
I THINK TYPICALLY IN ARBORISTS
SIX OR SEVEN PERCENT MODE SHARE
RIDE THE BUS.
I THINK THAT THEY WERE
PROJECTING SOMEWHERE BETWEEN 20
AND 30 PERCENT WOULD RIDE THE
BUS.
THAT WOULD BE A WONDERFUL PLACE
FOR US TO GET AS A COMMUNITY.
BUT FOR THAT TO BE PART OF THIS
DEVELOPMENT I THINK IS PROBABLY
A WAYS OFF INTO THE FUTURE.
SO SAYING THIS IS GOING TO HAVE
THE EFFECT ON ON THE ON THE BUS
SERVICE THAT THEY'RE KIND
OF ANTICIPATING MIGHT BE MORE
THAN ACTUALLY ACTUALLY HANDS
OUT.
BUT JUST JUST I MEAN JUST YOU
KNOW, THE BIGGER PICTURE THIS
IS A BIG PARKING LOT RIGHT NOW.
THERE ARE NO BUS RIDERS HERE.
WE'RE GOING TO ADD A THOUSAND
UNITS, TWO HUNDRED OF WHICH ARE
AFFORDABLE TO THAT POINT.
SO IT WILL CHANGE THE WAY THAT
THE BUS OPERATES IN THE CITY.
HOPEFULLY A LOT MORE RIDERS.
BUT I THINK THAT IS TO YOU
KNOW, THOSE SPECIFIC THE
CONTENT OF THAT LETTER MIGHT BE
JUST A LITTLE DIFFERENT THAN
KIND OF THE CONVERSATIONS HAD
BEEN HAD BEEN GOING TO THIS
POINT.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER DISH, THANK
YOU.
I WANT TO WITH ALL RESPECT
MENTIONED OR SPEAK TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVED THE ANN
ARBOR S SITE PLAN WITH
CONDITIONS ON JUNE 17TH AND
THOSE CONDITIONS MUST BE
SATISFIED FOR THE PROJECT TO
MOVE FORWARD.
THE CONDITIONS MOST RELEVANT TO
THIS DISCUSSION INCLUDED THAT
REVISIONS TO THE MULTIMODAL
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
WILL BE SUBMITTED AND PLANS
MODIFIED TO REFLECT TO REFLECT
OUTCOMES THAT SATISFY THE
TRANSPORTATION MANAGER AND WHAT
I UNDERSTAND IS THAT THE REVIEW
OF THE ANALYSIS AND
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT IT ARE
STILL ONGOING.
THE REVISED SITE PLAN INDICATED
THAT OBVIOUSLY THIS HAS BEEN
MENTIONED IS WILLING TO
PARTICIPATE IN INSTALLING A
TRAFFIC SIGNAL ON STATE STREET
AT THE WEST SIDE OF THE PROJECT
ADJACENT TO AN EXISTING BUS
STOP.
I THINK THAT IT IS PRETTY CLEAR
FROM THE TRANSPORTATION
MANAGER'S REPORT IN STREAM THAT
THAT NEEDS TO HAPPEN AND THAT
THIS IS AN EXCITING DEVELOPMENT
THAT IS IN TURN WE WALKABLE AND
HAS TREES AND BIKE LANES.
BUT IF IT IS AN ISLAND UNTO
ITSELF IT WILL NOT MEET OUR
ASPIRATIONS FOR A TAXI AND SO
IT NEEDS TO BE CONNECTED
EXTERNALLY AS WELL.
THE SITE PLAN THAT IS THAT WAS
REVISED AND THAT WAS APPROVED
DID SHOW IMPROVED BIKE
FACILITIES ALONG THE NORTH AND
EASTERN EDGE OF THE PROJECT AND
THOSE WILL HELP WITH
CONNECTIVITY TO EXISTING BIKE
FACILITIES IN THAT PART
OF TOWN.
SO I JUST WANT TO REITERATE
THAT WAS A CONDITION
OF PLANNING COMMISSION SITE AND
APPROVAL AND THAT HAS TO BE
ACHIEVED FOR THIS PROJECT TO
MOVE FORWARD.
SO IT'S NOT A LACK
OF COMMITMENT TO THOSE ASPECTS
OF OUR ASPIRATIONS.
ONE WANTED TO ADD ONE MORE
THING THAT I MIGHT UNDERSTAND
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENTLY BUT THIS
WAS IN A STAFF PRESENTATION BY
PINAR DEL RIO WHO MENTIONED
THAT THE GOAL THE ONE DISTRICT
IS TO TURN PARKING LOTS INTO
PLACES WHERE PEOPLE CAN LIVE,
WORK AND PLAY AND CURRENTLY 700
PEOPLE WORK AT THE SITE AND
THEY PARK IN THE SURFACE
PARKING LOTS WHEN HOUSING IN A
HOTEL AND PUBLIC OPEN SPACE AND
RESTAURANTS ARE CONSTRUCTED ON
THOSE WHAT ARE NOW PARKING LOTS
THOSE WORKERS WILL NEED
SOMEPLACE TO PARK AS WILL THOSE
RESIDENTS AS WILL THE PEOPLE
WHO I HOPE JOIN ME EATING IN
WHAT I'M SURE WILL BE DELICIOUS
RESTAURANTS.
SO A TYPICAL PARKING RATIO FOR
A HOUSING PROJECT OF THIS SIZE
WOULD BE ONE POINT THREE
PARKING SPOTS PER UNIT.
THE HOUSING COMPONENT FOR THIS
PROJECT HAS A RECORD LOW
ALLOTMENT OF PARKING PER UNIT
AT POINT SIX SIX SPOTS PER UNIT
THAT IS LOWER THAN THE PRIOR
GOOD ALLOCATION OF PARKING.
AND SO WE'RE LOOKING AT A I
THINK A REASONABLY DESIGNED
PROJECT EXCUSE ME GIVEN WHAT
WE'RE TRYING TO DO WHICH IS
CONVERT AN OFFICE SPACE INTO A
HOLE THAT'S NO YES.
THING.
>> COUNCILOR MCCONNELL, THIS IS
A QUESTION FOR STAFF.
I DON'T KNOW WHO I AT OUR LAST
MEETING WE APPROVED A CONTRACT
TO CONTINUE TO STUDY THE
FINANCIALS OF THIS PROJECT AND
I AM CURIOUS WHAT IS STILL
AMBIGUOUS AND WHAT NUMBERS
WE'RE WAITING ON AND WHETHER OR
NOT WE HAVE A FINAL
DETERMINATION OF WHAT PORTION
OF THE TIF WILL GO TO THE CITY
TO PAY FOR INFRASTRUCTURE
IMPROVEMENTS VERSUS COMPLETELY
GO TO PARKING.
I CAN SPEAK TO IT ANECDOTALLY
BUT I KNOW THE MARTIRE REPS
FROM PFM WILL PROBABLY BE ABLE
TO BE MORE SPECIFIC IF SOMEBODY
WANTED TO JUMP IN.
>> RIGHT.
GOOD EVENING.
I WOULD SAY THAT WE HAVE A
PRELIMINARY REPORT BUT WE WERE
WAITING FOR A FINAL
DETERMINATION OF THE BINDING
TIMING BEFORE WE CAN FINALIZE
THE NUMBERS
SO THERE'S NO WAY
TO DETERMINE WITHOUT FIRST
ISSUING THE BAN OR AUTHORIZING
THE BAND WHAT TIF DOLLARS WILL
COME BACK TO THE CITY IS THAT I
UNDERSTAND THAT CORRECTLY.
>> THAT'S THE QUESTION I'M
ASKING IF THAT'S ALL WE HAVE WE
DO HAVE WE DO HAVE TIF
ESTIMATES BUT OBVIOUSLY SOME
OF THE TIP HOURS WILL BE
REALLOCATED TO THE ADDITIONAL
COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH FINANCING
AFTER THE FACT FOR THE
DEVELOPER TO CARRY THE COST.
SO DEPENDING ON THE SITUATION
AND THE TIMING THAT WILL THAT
WILL CHANGE THE AMOUNT
OF DOLLARS THAT ARE ALLOCATED
BACK TO THE CITY.
IF I COULD JUST ADD THE REASON
THAT THE ADMINISTRATION BOUGHT
BROUGHT THE RESOLUTION WORDED
IN THE MANNER THAT IT IS IS TO
PROVIDE CLARITY ON THE FLOW
OF THE DOLLARS SO FROM THE
PERSPECTIVE THAT WE PRESENTED,
IF WE WERE TO FINANCE ALL THREE
DECKS WHERE THE CITY IS DOING
IT UP FRONT THE NUMBERS THIRTY
POINT SIX DOLLARS MILLION AS
DETERMINED BY PFM IF WE'RE
GOING TO SORT OF BIFURCATE THE
PROJECTN SOMETIMES TIME
BEFORE AND SOMETIMES AFTER,
THAT'S WHERE WE CAN'T BE
CERTAIN UNTIL WE ACTUALLY DO
IT.
SO WE WERE TRYING TO GET SOME
DIRECTION TONIGHT TO KNOW WHAT
WE'RE ACTUALLY DRILLING ALL THE
WAY DOWN ON AND IF YOU TAKE IT,
ACCEPT THAT WE'LL WE'LL GO AND
CONTINUE WORKING ON THAT.
OK, SO I BELIEVE INCENTIVES
I
THINK THEY'RE AN IMPORTANT
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT TOOL.
I STRONGLY SUPPORT MORE HOUSING
AND I GUESS MY BOTTOM LINE IS
I'M REALLY UNCOMFORTABLE
WITHOUT KNOWING THE ACTUAL
DOLLARS AND CENTS.
I DO UNDERSTAND AND MR GIANT
CONFIRMED TONIGHT THAT THE
DEVELOPER WORKED WITH CITY
STAFF ON SOME OF THE
ENVIRONMENTAL AND
TRANSPORTATION REQUESTS WE MADE
IN PREVIOUS VOTE.
I VERY MUCH APPRECIATE THAT AND
I WANT TO THANK STAFF AND THE
DEVELOPER FOR DOING THE WORK
AND I AGREE WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER.
>> THERE ARE ALWAYS TRADE OFFS.
MY OBJECTION HERE LIES IN NOT
UNDERSTANDING HOW MUCH OF THE
TIF IS GOING TO GO FOR PARKING
DECKS VERSUS INFRASTRUCTURE IN
YES I'LL COME BACK OK FOR
DISCUSSION.
OH I'M SORRY COUNCILOR MELIK.
I ALSO HAD A QUESTION ON THIS
TOPIC IF STAFF WOULD INDULGE ME
SO I UNDERSTAND THAT SHOULD
THIS PROJECT MOVE FORWARD
TONIGHT WITH TONIGHT'S VOTE
PENDING THAT OUTCOME THERE WILL
BE A NUMBER OF DECISION POINTS
FOR COUNCIL COMING UP ON THIS
PROJECT INCLUDING A POSSIBLE
PURCHASE AGREEMENT APPROVAL, A
BROWNFIELD PLAN APPROVAL AND
INTENTION TO BOND AND THEN AN
ACTUAL ISSUANCE OF THE BOND OR
SEVERAL BOND ISSUANCES FOR EACH
DEC.
COULD STAFF PROVIDE SOME
CLARITY ON THE SEQUENCE AND
TIMING OF THOSE VARIOUS COUNCIL
DECISIONS COMING UP?
AND YOU KNOW WHICH OF THOSE
COMES FIRST?
ARE THEY ALL COMING IN ONE
MEETING?
DO WE ANTICIPATE THEM COMING
OVER SEVERAL WEEKS, SEVERAL
MONTHS?
ANY INSIGHT YOU COULD PROVIDE
WOULD BE GREAT.
OH SURE.
IT'S A GOOD QUESTION AND ONE
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT RECENTLY AS
DOES THE PROJECT TEAM THE WAY
THAT WE SO YEAH.
YOU HAD THE DOCUMENTS LAID OUT
PRETTY PRETTY MUCH EXACTLY
RIGHT.
THERE'D BE A BROWNFIELD PLAN.
WE'RE CALLING IT A PPA LIKE A
PUBLIC PRIVATE AGREEMENT WHICH
IS A PURCHASER AGREEMENT WITH
THE YOU KNOW, TERMS FOR THE
FUTURE PHASES IN IT.
THEN THERE WOULD BE A AN
INDUCEMENT RESOLUTION FOR THE
FOR THE BONDS WHICH WOULD
INCLUDE ALL THREE BONDS, THE
TOTAL AMOUNT AND THEN WHEN WE
WERE READY TO ISSUE THERE WOULD
BE A FINAL APPROVAL FOR EACH
ONE OF THOSE THOSE BONDS UM, AS
IT STANDS RIGHT NOW, THE THE
BROWNFIELD PLAN WOULD PROBABLY
COME TO YOU FIRST REQUIRES A
COUPLE OF ADDITIONAL LEVELS
OF APPROVAL THAT WOULD NEED TO
HAPPEN AFTER YOU ALL HOPEFULLY
APPROVE IT.
IT WOULD NEED TO GO TO THE
COUNTY BROWNFIELD AUTHORITY,
THE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS AND
THEN THE STATE SO THAT MIGHT
GET OUT IN FRONT OF THE OTHER
ONES.
IT'S IT'S MORE OR LESS IN FINAL
FORM PENDING THE DECISION
TONIGHT BECAUSE THAT WILL
AFFECT THE NUMBERS.
BUT WE WOULD ANTICIPATE
BRINGING THAT TO ALL HOPEFULLY
WITHIN THE NEXT MONTH OR SO
THEN THE PPA THAT THE BIG
OVERARCHING DOCUMENT AND THEN
THE BOND INDUCEMENT RESOLUTION
IT WOULD FOLLOW AND HOPEFULLY
NOT TOO LONG AFTER THAT AND
THAT'S A VERY VAGUE WAY TO SAY
IT.
BUT IT'S HARD TO SAY BECAUSE
IT'S STILL BEING NEGOTIATED
MAYBE A MONTH AFTER THAT AND
THEN WHETHER THE INDUCEMENT
RESOLUTION CAME AT THE SAME
TIME AS THAT OR IT WAS A LITTLE
BIT FURTHER DOWN THE ROAD, IT'S
HARD TO SAY RIGHT NOW THE PPA
OUTLINES A NUMBER OF CONDITIONS
AND CONTINGENCIES THAT NEED TO
BE MET BEFORE WE TAKE THE NEXT
STEP TO DO THE INDUCEMENT
RESOLUTION SO THOSE WOULD NEED
TO BE MET AND THERE YOU KNOW,
PROJECT APPROVALS, PERMITS,
THINGS LIKE THAT TITLE.
SO IT'S HARD IT'S HARD TO GIVE
YOU AN EXACT TIMELINE.
OUR INTENT IS TO BRING THIS
CLOSE TOGETHER AS POSSIBLE BUT
WE AREN'T ENTIRELY SURE THAT
THAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN.
THANK YOU.
YOU CAN REMAIN CONFINEMENT.
PLEASE DO.
THANK YOU, JOE.
YOUR AREN'T EXACTLY CORRECT BUT
THERE'S JUST TWO THINGS THAT I
ON DENHA KEEP IN MIND THE ANN
ARBOR HOUSING COMMISSION IS
NEGOTIATING THEIR OWN AGREEMENT
SO THAT BE A SEPARATE
AGREEMENT.
I JUST WANTED THAT TO BE HERE
AND THEIR OWN BOND ISSUANCE IF
THEY DECIDE TO GO THAT WAY.
SO IT'S A SIMILAR TRANSACTION
BUT PARALLEL AND SEPARATE AND
THEN WITH THE BROWNFIELD PLAN
THERE COMES SOMETHING CALLED A
REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT WHICH
LAYS OUT THE ORDER IN WHICH
THINGS WILL BE REIMBURSED THE
GARAGE BOND PAYMENTS OR
WHATEVER WE AGREE UPON.
SO IT'S A VERY RELATED DOCUMENT
OF THE BROWNFIELD PLAN BUT A
SEPARATE DOCUMENT, FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE MAIN MOTION
COUNCIL MEMBER KAZUTO.
SO THANK YOU MR DRYAD.
ALSO THANK YOU MR DE HONI FOR
YOUR WORK ON THIS.
YOU KNOW MY CONCERNS ARE WHEN
WE RECEIVED THAT LETTER FROM
CEO A.T.M MATTHEW CARPENTER IN
REGARDS TO JUST THIS WILL NOT
PROVIDE ADEQUATE FUNDING FOR
THEM TO PROPERLY INCREASE
CAPACITY THAT I MEAN THAT IS
DEEPLY TROUBLING FOR ME.
I MEAN PART IT IS IT'S AN
ACCESSIBILITY ISSUE OF MANY
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
INCLUDING WHEELCHAIR USERS.
THEY REALLY DEPEND ON THE BUS
SYSTEM BECAUSE THEY HAVE THE
WHEELCHAIR LIFTS.
>> IT'S AN EQUITY ISSUE.
I UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU'RE SAYING
THAT POTENTIALLY YOU KNOW
MATTHEW CARPENTERS' AND THE
ANALYSIS OVERASSESSED DID
RIDERSHIP IT SOUNDS LIKE THAT
WAS WHAT YOU SAID PREVIOUSLY,
CORRECT?
I GUESS WHAT I'M WONDERING IS
IS THERE IS THERE PLANS TO THEN
REVISIT THOSE CONVERSATIONS
WITH 8A?
IS THERE AND TO JUST HEAR ALL
THOSE CONCERNS, IS THERE AN
OPPORTUNITY LATER IN THE
PROCESS TO POTENTIALLY MAKE
SURE THAT ONE OF THE BONDS ARE
ASSOCIATED WITH INCREASED
CAPACITY FOR YOUR INVESTMENT IN
MORE PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY
INFRASTRUCTURE?
YES, ABSOLUTELY.
IT'S A SITUATION WHERE I MEAN
SUBMITS A LETTER AND WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT IT BUT BUT I MEAN
IN REALITY WE'RE WORKING AS A
TEAM THEM BEING PART OF THE
TEAM CONSISTENTLY THROUGH THE
WHOLE PROJECT DEVELOPMENT TO
MAKE SURE THAT IT'S MEETING ALL
OF OUR REQUIREMENTS.
I MEAN IT'S CHALLENGING WHEN I
MEAN THERE ARE A LOT
OF IMPORTANT THINGS THAT THE
PROJECT NEEDS TO ADDRESS AND
THAT IS THAT IS ABSOLUTELY ONE
OF THEM AND THAT IS ONE OF THE
REASONS THAT HAVING THAT EXTRA
OR THAT TAX INCREMENT THAT
WE'RE SAVING FROM FINANCING IT
THIS WAY IS IMPORTANT BECAUSE
WE CAN PUT IT TOWARDS THOSE
THOSE TYPES OF USES LIKE MAKING
SURE THAT THE BUS STOPS ARE
BUILT OUT SO THAT IF YOU DO
HAVE A DISABILITY YOU CAN
EASILY GET ON THE BUS AT THAT
STATION THAT'S THAT'S CRITICAL
.
AND WHEN WE TALK ABOUT LIKE AN
ENHANCED BUS STOP THAT NEEDS TO
BE A PART OF IT THAT'S THAT'S
REALLY IMPORTANT.
BUT IT'S AN ONGOING
CONVERSATION EVEN THAT'S
LOOKING AT ONE MORE BROADLY
MAKING SURE THAT AS THIS AREA
DEVELOPS THAT WE'RE THINKING
ABOUT EVERY SINGLE USER OF THAT
AREA.
IF WE'RE GOING TO MAKE IT LIKE
A DOWNTOWN, IT NEEDS TO HAVE
THE FACILITIES MAKE IT FEEL
LIKE A DOWNTOWN AND THAT
INCLUDES MAKING IT VERY EASY
FOR EVERYONE TO GET EVERYWHERE
THEY WANT TO GET WITHOUT HAVING
TO GET IN THE CAR OR IF THEY
NEED SPECIAL NEEDS LIKE THOSE
CAN BE ADDRESSED TO.
BUT YES, IT'S ONGOING
CONVERSATION AND AND AGAIN, THE
THING WE'RE LOOKING AT TONIGHT,
IT IS NOT THE FINAL AGREEMENT.
IT'S JUST A DIRECTION ON
BONDING THE FINAL AGREEMENT IF
IT DOESN'T HAVE THOSE DETAILS
IN THE AGREEMENT, I MEAN THAT
WOULD BE SOMETHING WE WOULD BE
HAPPY TO DISCUSS BEFORE OR
DURING THAT CONVERSATION.
AND I ALSO UNDERSTAND THAT
ACCORDING TO WHAT COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL'S COMMENTS
INDICATED THAT WE ALSO DON'T
KNOW HOW MUCH MONEY WOULD
NECESSARILY COME BACK TO THE
CITY AT THIS POINT TO EVEN
INVEST IN INFRASTRUCTURE.
BUT WHAT YOU'RE SAYING IS
CONVERSATIONS COULD TAKE PLACE
.
WE KNOW APPROXIMATELY THE
FINANCING COSTS FOR THE TWO
DIFFERENT BONDING SCENARIOS.
IT'S JUST VERY, VERY, VERY HARD
DRILL DOWN TO THE LEVEL
OF SPECIFICITY FOR WHEN THERE'S
JUST A LOT OF ASSUMPTIONS THAT
CAN KIND OF BUILD ON EACH
OTHER.
SO I MEAN WE KNOW GENERALLY
IT'S JUST HARD TO PUT IT IF WE
PUT LIKE WE ROUNDED IT OUT TO
THE SENSE IT WOULD JUST BE LIKE
A MISLEADING LEVEL OF PRECISION
.
I THINK THE WAY TO PUT IT IS
THAT YOU CAN'T SAY REDISH OK, I
JUST I WANTED TO ASK MR
DELACOURT THANK YOU FOR ALL
THIS INFORMATION.
WE WENT BACK AND FORTH A LITTLE
BIT AROUND HOW TO THINK ABOUT
THESE.
I'M SORRY SIR.
YOU AND I'VE TALKED ABOUT THIS
BEFORE AND SO I WONDERED IF YOU
COULD JUST PUT YOUR TWO CENTS
HERE ABOUT THE BROWNFIELD WHAT
WE THIS QUESTION OF WHETHER
WHAT IT MEANS TO DELAY
GRATIFICATION ON A BROWNFIELD
TIP, ARRANGE RELATION TO THE
LATEST JUST IN GENERAL.
NO, NO.
IN RELATION TO THE LETTER I YOU
AND I DID SPEAK ABOUT THIS AND
I THINK IT'S TRUE OF EVERY
BROWNFIELD WE DO ALL OF THE
TAXING JURISDICTION WHETHER
IT'S TO THE CITY'S GENERAL
FUND, EVERY EVERYBODY GOES
WITHOUT THAT INCREASED TAX THAT
THAT INCREMENT DURING THE LIFE
OF THE PLAN AND SACRIFICES THAT
TO ALLOW THE PROJECT TO TAKE
PLACE WITH ALL OF THE
BROWNFIELD PLANS.
THE IDEA IS FOR THAT SACRIFICE
YOU DON'T GET THE PROJECT SO
THERE WOULDN'T BE ANY INCREASE
IN RIDERS.
THERE WOULD BE NO INCREASE IN
HOUSING OR THE OWNERSHIP OF THE
HOUSING.
THE PEOPLE WHO WOULD BE THE
RIDERS LONG TERM THE TAXES WILL
SHOW UP TO COVER THOSE COSTS
AND THOSE INCREASES.
BUT FOR THE BROWNFIELD TIF
THERE IS NO PROJECT AT ALL THAT
IS THE INITIAL STANDARD.
THAT'S WHAT PFM ANALYSIS DOES
THE ANALYSIS ON.
THAT'S WHAT THE CITY LOOKS AT.
THAT'S WHAT WE'VE DONE FOR
EVERY SINGLE BROWNFIELD PLAN
AND IT IS TRUE OF EVERY
BROWNFIELD PLAN THAT THOSE
JURISDICTIONS GO WITHOUT THAT
INCREMENT FOR A PERIOD OF TIME
FOR THE OVERALL GAIN OF THE
PROJECT AND THE LIFETIME OF THE
PROJECT WHICH COULD BE HUNDREDS
OF YEARS IN COMPARISON TO THE
THIRTY YEARS YOU GO WITHOUT THE
TIFE UP TO NOW THIS IS A BIGGER
ONE.
IT HAS A BIGGER IMPACT ON THE
JURISDICTIONS FOR SURE BUT IT
IS CONSISTENT WITH ALL THE
OTHER ONES WE DO IN THAT THE
TRADE OFF IS IS BUT FOR THAT
INCREMENT THE PROJECT DOESN'T
HAPPEN AND YOU DON'T SEE THE
OVERALL GAIN OF THE PROJECT
DOWN THE ROAD AND THOSE ARE THE
CONVERSATION WE HAVE ABOUT
BROWNFIELD IS AND THAT'S WHY WE
ASKED PEOPLE LIKE PFM AND OUR
FINANCE DEPARTMENT TO DETERMINE
IF THE TIF DOESN'T EXIST.
DOES THE PROJECT COME AND
TRIPOLI TO SEE THOSE ADVANTAGES
TO BE ABLE TO ADD AND TO
COVER THOSE COSTS WITHOUT THE
PROJECT?
NO AND LONG TERM CERTAINLY NOT
.
SO I THINK THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE
ASKING.
OK, YES.
COUNCILOR RACKMAN
.
SO I GUESS JUST TO FOLLOW UP ON
THAT AND I APPRECIATE THAT
EXPLANATION I ALSO APPRECIATE
THE BACKGROUND WITH RESPECT TO
THE TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT
AND THE WHAT DID YOU CALL
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL?
BECAUSE I WAS VERY CONCERNED
WHEN I READ THE TRANSPORTATION
REPORT IT OF COURSE WAS
CONSISTENT WITH EVERYTHING I
KNOW ABOUT THAT AREA.
I CONTINUE TO BE CONCERNED THAT
THE BALANCE OF THE CITY'S
PARTICIPATION IN THE PROJECT
SKEWS AWAY FROM WHAT WE WANT TO
SEE FOR CHANGES TO MODE SHARE.
YOU KNOW, ONE OF THE GOALS IN
OUR CARBON NEUTRALITY PLAN
CALLS FOR RESIDENTS TO TAKE
TRANSIT FOR FORTY PERCENT
OF THEIR JOURNEY IS NOT DONE
THROUGH WALKING AND BIKING BY
TWENTY THIRTY.
SO TO ME THIS IS ABOUT CHOICES
WHERE OUR INVESTMENT GO.
I UNDERSTAND THE WHAT MR
DELACOURT JUST EXPLAINED ABOUT
THE ANALYSIS IS BUT FOR THIS
PROJECT WOULD NOT HAPPEN AND I
DON'T ARGUE WITH THAT BUT IT'S
NOT BUT FOR ANY PROJECT COULD
HAPPEN THIS JUST THIS
PARTICULAR PROJECT SO YOU KNOW,
MY CONCERNS REMAIN.
I DO APPRECIATE THE AMENDMENT
THAT MINIMIZES RISK.
AGAIN, WE'LL BE SUPPORTING THIS
BECAUSE THE CONCERNS ABOUT WHAT
WE'RE INVESTING IN TERMS
OF INFRASTRUCTURE IN THIS AREA.
YEAH, IT'S NO BRAKES.
YEAH.
I THINK I FUNDAMENTALLY
DISAGREE THAT THIS AREA NEEDS
THE BROWNFIELD TO BE DEVELOPED
.
I BELIEVE THAT DECISION ALLOWS
FOR IT TO BE DEVELOPED AT THAT
BROWNFIELD WE DON'T HAVE FIVE
PERCENT TRANSIT USERS USAGE IN
THE CITY IT'S NINE PERCENT WE
HAVE SOME OF THE HIGHEST MARKET
SHARE FOR BIKE WALK IN TRANSIT
IN THE COUNTRY.
SIXTEEN PER CENT WALK, ELEVEN
PERCENT BIKE, NINE PERCENT
TRANSIT.
SO WE ALREADY HAVE REALLY
STRONG TRANSIT AND I THINK THE
POINT IS THE RIDE HERE IS NOT
THAT JUST ENHANCED CROSSWALKS
AND PEDESTRIAN SAFETY IS NEEDED
THOSE THEY'RE PILOTING THAT BUT
THE FACT AS MR DELACOURT
MENTIONED THAT WE ARE
INCREASING RIDERSHIP
SIGNIFICANTLY IN THE AREA AND
THERE'S NOT GOING TO BE A
CORRESPONDING INCREASE IN
FUNDING TO SUPPORT THAT.
>> SO A THOUSAND NEW PEOPLE OR
A THOUSAND NEW UNITS IN THAT
AREA AND THOSE CORRESPONDING
PEOPLE THAT WE WANT TO RIDE A
BUS THAT REQUIRES MORE MONEY
FROM THE PART OF ATAY TO
PROVIDE THAT SERVICE ATAY IS
TELLING US VERY CLEARLY RIGHT
NOW THAT THEY NEED MORE REVENUE
TO PROVIDE THE GOOD SERVICE
THAT WE WANT TO SEE IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND SO I DON'T WHAT I
HEARD IN YOUR STATEMENT WAS
THAT YOU KNOW AS WE MOVE
FORWARD IN THIS WE CAN MAKE
MODIFICATIONS IN THE TIFF AND I
DON'T THINK THAT'S ACCURATE.
I WANT TO MAKE SURE CLARIFY
THAT.
I THINK WHAT WE CAN MODIFY IS
IS THERE ADDITIONAL TRANSIT
STOP?
WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT
FUNNELING MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
TOWARDS THE MTA IN IF I'M
INCORRECT IN THAT, PLEASE
CORRECT ME BECAUSE THAT
INCREDIBLY TALKING ABOUT THE
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE
THAT WOULD BE PART OF OK, SO
THE TRANSPORTATION
INFRASTRUCTURE WOULD NOT BE
ABOUT SUBSIDY TO THE RIDER.
THAT'S WHAT I ASKED YOU BASED
ON ME THAT CLARIFICATION
BECAUSE THAT'S THE BIGGEST
ISSUE THAT THAT WAS WRITING
RAISING TO US IS THAT YOU'RE
INCREASING RIDERSHIP ON THIS
AREA.
WE'RE SUGGESTING RIDERSHIP
PROJECTIONS WITHIN THE ARE
ACTUALLY LIKELY TO BE HIGHER
WHETHER WHOEVER'S FIGURES ARE
RIGHT INCREASED RIDERSHIP IS
GOING TO REQUIRE ADDITIONAL
BUSSES TO SERVICE THOSE AND
THIS IS THAT COUPLED WITH THAT
CONSIDERING THIS IS A TRANSIT
ORIENTED CORRIDOR, I THINK THAT
THAT IS SOMETHING THAT WE AS A
BODY SHOULD TAKE REALLY
SERIOUSLY.
COUNCILOR MCCONNELL.
SO I'M TAKING OBVIOUSLY A
LITTLE DIFFERENT THAN SOME
OF MY COLLEAGUES WHICH I
APPRECIATE HAVING THIS
DIVERSITY OF DIALOG.
I WANT POINT OUT WE JUST
APPROVED A GOOD CHUNK OF CHANGE
FOR CONTRACTOR CONSULTANTS TO
CONTINUE TO WORK ON THE
FINANCES OF THIS PROJECT JUST
TO CENTER BACK MY MY CONCERNS.
THE DEVELOPER OF THIS PROJECT
SENT A LETTER TO COUNCIL
EXPRESSING CONCERNS ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN IN
THE CITY'S INFRASTRUCTURE
CAPACITY RELATED ADDED
DEVELOPMENT.
AND IN THIS PARTICULAR PROJECT
STAFF HAS VALIDATED THAT WITH
REGARD TO THE SEWER SYSTEM,
INFRASTRUCTURE CAN LIMIT OUR
CAPACITY TO ACCOMPLISH HOUSING
IN OUR COMMUNITY.
I'M CONFUSED WHY THAT CONCERN
DOESN'T APPLY TO THIS SPECIFIC
DEVELOPMENT GIVEN THE LETTER WE
RECEIVED BUT WITH BRIARWOOD
BEING DEVELOPED TOO, I HAVE
CONCERNS ABOUT THE TIMING
OF OUR INFRASTRUCTURE
IMPROVEMENTS WITH MASSIVE
AMOUNTS OF HOUSING THAT WE WANT
BEING BUILT AND WHEN YOU
RESIDENTS WILL AND THAT GAP
BETWEEN WHEN THE NEW RESIDENTS
WILL CONTRIBUTE TO OUR TAX
ROLLS.
I'VE HEARD A LOT ABOUT HOW THIS
PROJECT PENCIL'S FOR THE
DEVELOPER BUT NOT A LOT ABOUT
HOW IT PENCIL'S FOR THE CITY.
IT FEELS LIKE THE CITY IS STILL
ACCEPTING A LOT OF RISK,
ESPECIALLY IF BORROWING COSTS
ARE AT THE EXPENSE
OF INFRASTRUCTURE AND WE'RE
LEARNING TONIGHT THAT CITY
DOLLARS WILL ALSO HAVE TO FILL
THAT INFRASTRUCTURE GAP
IDENTIFIED BY THE RIDE AND THAT
WE RECENTLY LEARNED THE CITY
WON'T BE PURCHASING OR OWNING
THE PROPERTY THE DECKS RESIDE
ON.
I I APPRECIATE THE AMENDMENT.
I APPRECIATE THE CHANGE AND I
THINK THAT THAT IS A WISE AND
PRUDENT MOVE EVEN IF IT COSTS
US MORE.
BUT I'M COMFORTABLE SUPPORTING
AUTHORIZING FUNDING WITHOUT
KNOWING WHAT PORTION OF THE TIF
WILL GO TO INFRASTRUCTURE AND I
UNDERSTAND THE FULL FINANCIAL
PARTICIPATION BY THE DEVELOPER
IN THESE ADDITIONAL COSTS
FURTHER DISCUSSION
FOR FOR MY
PART I AM I'M COMFORTABLE
MOVING FORWARD TONIGHT.
I GUESS I'LL SAY THIS IT IS TO
MY I APPRECIATE DESIRE FOR
COUNCIL MEMBERS TO KNOW WHAT
JEFF IS GOING TO BE SPENT WHERE
WHAT CAN BE SPENT WHERE AND SO
FORTH.
AND THAT'S IMPORTANT FOR US TO
EVENTUALLY FIGURE OUT FOR US TO
KNOW ONCE WE MOVE FORWARD WITH
MORE WITH MORE PARTICULARITY.
THAT NUMBER IS NOT KNOWABLE IN
THIS CONTEXT BECAUSE WE HAVE
NOT MADE IT CLEAR TO THE
ADMINISTRATOR WHEN THE BONDS
ARE GOING TO BE ISSUED.
ARE THE BONDS GOING TO BE
ISSUED BEFORE THE BONDS CAN BE
ISSUED AFTER THAT INFORMATION
IS NECESSARY FOR STAFF TO MAKE
THE CALCULATION THAT WE ARE
ASKING FOR AND SO I CAN
APPRECIATE THAT THAT THAT THERE
IS UNCERTAINTY THERE BUT THE
UNCERTAINTY IS THE RESULT
OF THE ABSENCE OF THIS
RESOLUTION, THIS RESOLUTION
WILL CLARIFY WILL MEET THAT
UNCERTAINTY, ENABLE STAFF TO
TELL US PRECISELY BASED UPON
THE CADENCE OF THE BOND
ISSUANCE THAT WE HAVE DESCRIBED
IN THIS RESOLUTION WHAT TIFF
WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR WHAT
INFRASTRUCTURE FURTHER I GUESS
FROM MY PART I'D SAY I'M NOT
PARTICULARLY INTERESTED IN
LETTERS THAT THAT ANYONE HAS
SENT TO US WITH RESPECT TO WITH
RESPECT TO THEIR ADVOCACY ON
THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
.
THAT'S A SEPARATE MATTER IN MY
VIEW.
THE FACT THAT THE
INFRASTRUCTURE DOWNSTREAM WITH
RESPECT TO THE WASTEWATER WILL
SERVED WILL POTENTIALLY SERVE
AS A WILL SERVE AS A BARRIER TO
SUBSEQUENT INVESTMENT IS IN MY
VIEW A A FACT THAT MILITATES IN
FAVOR OF THIS INVESTMENT IN
FAVOR OF THIS THIS ACTION
PARTICULARLY AS COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH POINTED OUT BY UTILIZING
TIF DOLLARS FOR THIS PURPOSE WE
ARE TAKING IT OUT OF THE NORMAL
RATE PAYER PAYS FOR IT PAYS FOR
NEW INFRASTRUCTURE.
WE ARE SPECIFYING A PARTICULAR
TAXPAYER UTILIZING THOSE TAX
DOLLARS COMING THROUGH THE TIF
RELIEVING RATEPAYERS I.E. ALL
OF US OF THE BURDEN OF BUILDING
THIS INFRASTRUCTURE FOR
BUILDING THIS INFRASTRUCTURE TO
MEET DOWNSTREAM CAPACITY.
IN MY VIEW IT MAKES A GOOD DEAL
OF SENSE AND I'M LOOKING
FORWARD TO ITS FURTHER
CONSIDERATION FOR THE
DISCUSSION
.
>> I THINK YOU'RE A SECOND.
>> I DON'T BUT ISN'T IF HE
DOESN'T EXIST RATEPAYERS CANNOT
BE ASKED TO PAY FOR AN
EXPANSION.
THAT'S CORRECT.
RIGHT.
EXISTING RATEPAYERS CANNOT BE
MADE FOR TO PAY FOR AN
EXPANSION.
I WAS JUST A LITTLE CONFUSED BY
YOUR WORDING A MINUTE AGO ABOUT
THE RELIEF OF THE BURDEN.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE CURRENT RATE
REPAIR, THIS IS REALLY MORE
OF A BOLD QUESTION THAN
ANYTHING ELSE.
BUT IF I IF I CAN VERY BROADLY
SINCE RATEPAYERS
EXISTING
RATEPAYERS HAVE THE CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT IS PART OF PART
OF THE RATE BUT IS BUT IS A
CALIBRATED PART OF THE RATE IT
IS NOT SORT OF AN ACCELERATED
PART OF THE RATE.
I DON'T KNOW IF THOSE WORDS ARE
USEFUL TO YOU BUT THAT'S WHAT I
THAT'S HOW I THINK IT THROUGH
MY OFF KEY HERE YOU WERE BOTH
POLITICALLY CORRECT AND THERE
ARE SOME IMPROVEMENTS THAT ARE
PART OF RATE BUT THEY CAN'T BE
ASKED TO PAY FOR EXPANSION
OF THE ROLE OF FRONTLINE TO
SERVICE OTHER RATEPAYERS.
SO SOME CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS.
YES, CAPITAL PROVINCE OF THIS
NATURE PERHAPS NOT.
YES.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
ROLL CALL THOUGH PLEASE START
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER BREAKS.
THIS IS ON THE THE MAIN MOTION
AS AMENDED COUNCILOR BREAK NO
COUNCILOR CORNELL, NO CUSTOMER
YES.
>> CUSTOMER HARRISON YES.
CUSTOMER WATSON YES.
COUNCILOR MALLETT.
YES.
DENHA YES.
CUSTOMER GO THE OTHER ONE NO
MAYOR TAYLOR.
YES COUNCILOR ER YES BECAUSE
WE'RE APPX NO MOTION CARRIES DO
WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A
CLOSED SESSION TODAY WE HAVE
THE FORKS THE CLERKS ARE PART
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITION AND
REFERRALS AND HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE TO INCLUDE THE CURB
SUPPORT MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
MALEK'S
AND BY COUNCIL REDISH
DISCUSSION OF THE CLERK'S
SUPPORT IN FAVOR POSED THE
CLERK SUPPORT IS APPROVED BY
THE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
OUR CITY ATTORNEY.
THE ABSENCE OF PUBLIC COMMENT
OVERFLOW MAY HAVE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN PLEASE BY CATHERINE
DENHA SEEKING BY COUNCILOR
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OPPOSED.
WE'RE ADJOURNED